Parliament Does Not Support Amendment Freeing Tymoshenko
Today, the Ukraine parliament dismissed, within the Code of Criminal Procedure amendment, the motion to revoke an article based on which the opposition leader, Yulia Tymoshenko, was sentenced.
The amendment that would lead to freeing the imprisoned former Prime Minister was revoked during second reading of the proposal for mitigation of sentences for economic offences.
In October, Tymoshenko was sentenced to seven years in prison for entering into what was reported to be a disadvantageous gas deal with Russia.
The verdict is not yet final; the court will hear Tymoshenko's appeal in December.
Tymoshenko claims the verdict is a political revenge of the regime; in the West, the trial has also evoked suspicion of being biased.
The proposal to remove Article 365 from the Code of Criminal Procedure, upon which the former Prime Minister was sentenced, was supported by 147 members of parliament.
Its ratification would require 226 votes.
Libya's Victory
The story of Libya's liberation, or rebellion, already has its defeated.
Muammar Kaddafi is buried at an unknown place in the desert. Without him, the war is over.
It is time to define the winners.
As a rule, Islamists win in the country; the question is whether they are the moderate or the radical ones.
The transitional cabinet declared itself a follower of the customary Sharia law, of which we have already heard.
Libya will become a crime free country, as the punishment for stealing is having one's hand amputated.
Women can forget about emancipation; potential religious renegades will be executed; etc.
Instead of a dictator, a society consisting of competing tribes will be united by Koran.
Libya will be in an order we cannot imagine and surely would not ask for.
However, our lifestyle is neither unique nor the best one and would not, most probably, be suitable for, for example, the people of Libya.
In fact, it is a wonder that the Islamic fighters accepted help from the nonbelievers.
Their only excuse is that from their point of view, NATO raids were not controlled by an American general, but Allah, the greatness of whom they celebrated with each strike.
When winners are sought for in Libya, the West is not on the list.
We participated in a shooting, served Islam, and our politicians got rid of a dictator, their political ally, without any guarantee of profit.
Given the recent bad experience from Afghanistan and Iraq, we decided against military occupation of Libya.
The locals thus do not have to worry about expelling of the "crusaders."
Without the occupation, will the oil companies get Libya's black gold for next to nothing, though?
It is quite likely that they will not. The West will then finally be able to boast about its selfless protection of human rights.
Unless the followers of the Sharia law put a stop to that.
New Era of Crisis Commences
France and the rest of Europe are now in the investors" spotlight.
A statistical storm blew over Europe on Tuesday.
Individual countries released their 3Q GDP data.
Between quarters, the Czech economy stagnated; Germany and France are growing.
Yet the debit market is breaking records today.
Investors are no longer looking at only Italy; they now focus on Spain, France, Austria, and others.
Eurozone statistical offices in Germany, Czech Republic, and some other countries, released their preliminary estimates of economic development in the third quarter.
Germany's GDP has grown by the expected 0.5%; and France's by 0.4%.
Both countries also adjusted their second quarter data, where Germany did better than expected (a 0.3% increase instead of the original 0.1%). France reported a slight decrease, by 0.1% (the original information suggested stagnation).
In this year's third quarter, the Czech economy showed an interim increase of 1.5%.
Between the quarters though, the GDP stagnated. According to the Czech Statistical Office, this confirmed the trend of a gradual slowing of economic growth.
The results are worse than estimates by analysts.
Key events:
In this year's third quarter, Czech economy showed an interim increase of 1.5%; however, it stagnated between the quarters.
Based on preliminary and seasonal data, in the third quarter, the German economy grew by 0.5%.
Between July and September, the economy of both the Eurozone and the European Union grew, compared to the previous quarter, by 0.2%, which corresponds with estimates by analysts.
The Greek economy showed an interim decrease of 5.2%.
The earnings on its 10-year bonds are 28.45%.
Earnings of both Italian and Spanish bonds are growing towards critical limits.
Even Austria, Netherlands, France, and Belgium, etc. are beginning to experience problems.
Despite the fact that the situation in the region is getting worse, earnings of Czech 1 - year bonds stay under 4%.
Voices are coming from Germany, suggesting that ECB be the last resort creditor.
Czechs qualified for EURO.
In Montenegro they won 1:0 and celebrate a 200 million windfall.
Football representation successfully managed the toughest task of the season!
Thanks to both the great Čech and beautiful goal of Petr Jiráček ,they won 1:0.
In the second half, Czech football was lucky to maintain its luxury lead from the home return match, and will again feature at the European Championship.
IHNED.cz watched the progress match in a detailed report.
Nearly no excitement in the first half, and a great portion of luck in the other.
Czech representation team, partially due to the home team's failure in the close; the great Čech; and heroic Jiráček; won 1:0 in Montenegro, and celebrates moving on to the European Championship.
Perfect Czech team defence only allowed the Montenegro team to threaten in the second half.
Damjanovic and Vucinic became the match's least lucky couple after losing two great opportunities.
The wonderful Petr Čech is one of the reasons the Czech representation team will not miss the next year's European Championship. And Czech football will thus gain nearly 200 million Czech Crowns.
From the opening minutes, the game was very pugnacious.
Both teams found it difficult to join in the combination; the game remained around the mid-field line most of the time.
That was also why there was no pressure from the home team in the first half. Long kicks behind the defence were neatly averted by the Czech defence.
Iranian Students Are Prepared to Die for Their Country's Nuclear Program
They created a live shield.
Several hundred university students created a live chain around the nuclear power plant in Iran.
The gesture is to express their support of their country's nuclear program against a possible Israel attack.
At Tuesday noon, students' prayers in front of the building were followed by their chanting of death to both the USA and Israel.
In Isfahan, Iran, several hundred university students created a live chain around Isfahan Uranium Conversion Facility.
This way, they express their readiness to protect their country's nuclear program with their own lives.
In its recent report, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) stated that everything leads to the conclusion that Iran has not stopped striving for a nuclear weapon.
Possible attack on Iran nuclear facilities has been discussed in Israel.
At Tuesday noon, students' prayers in front of the entrance into Isfahan Uranium Conversion Facility were followed by their chanting of death to both the USA and Israel.
In case of an attack, aimed at the highest possible paralysation of the Iranian nuclear program, the targets would be, based on Israel press, the facilities in both Isfahan and Natanz, where the uranium is being enriched.
An Obese Child's Diet: No breakfast and sausage for dinner
Over a third of children between 9 and 13 are overweight; while 9% of schoolchildren are overweight, 5% are obese.
As a recent research shows, obese children usually come from families with unhealthy lifestyle.
Again, we can see the importance of the environment and models surrounding a human being for his or her healthy development.
For example, sausages occur up to half more frequently on the tables of obese children compared to the families of children with standard weight.
Over 19% of obese children had fried chips for dinner the day before the research connected to the educational event called Obesity is No Accident.
Moreover, the families of obese children do not practise sports. However, this concerns a majority of families of current schoolchildren - only 15% of the children said their parents find time for sports activities at least once a week.
The research was performed among 900 children.
The research took place at the end of last year's school year; it included almost 900 elementary school children from throughout Bohemia.
It was the second year of the Obesity is No Accident event supported by both Všeobecná zdravotní pojišťovna insurance company and Unilever.
So far, the project has been joined by over 12 thousand school children from 4th to 8th grades.
Proper diet and sufficient sports activities represent key defining factors causing dramatically growing number of children who are either overweight or obese.
"For example, only half of those inquired said they have five meals a day, in the breakfast-snack-lunch-snack-dinner pattern, one of the basic preconditions of correct diet," one of the results of the research says.
No lunch and sausage in the evening
Experts warn that even relative details are crucial for healthy development; such as a regular time of family breakfast.
In the Czech Republic, only 23% of schoolchildren's families have breakfast together.
In a majority of families, everyone has breakfast separately.
The worst discovery was the fact that in one tenth of households people do not have breakfast at all.
Yet breakfast is the core of proper daily diet.
A survey has shown that fries are consumed more often in the families of obese children.
Nearly everyone - regardless of their weight - drinks sweet soft drinks every day (70%).
Though over 40% of children do sports regularly, the number drops down to less than a half - 15% - when it comes to their parents.
Compose your own menu
Another part of the survey allowed selected children (204 boys and 172 girls from 13 schools) to compose their own menu based on selection offered and their taste and opinions.
"Diet preferences of Czech children between 12 and 15 are far from ideal as regards healthy diet."
Their favourite meals include large number of flour, meat, and sweet dishes.
"Especially alarming is the high popularity of sweet soft drinks," the final report of the survey concludes.
As the main dish for lunch, pasta won very tightly over poultry.
However, children showed very little interest in legumes, fish, and vegetable lunches.
Tendency towards health
The survey also showed that children are willing to adjust their eating habits provided they are given correct information.
"Many participants from the survey control group showed a significant shift of preferences towards healthy food when completing a questionnaire after the end of the Obesity is No Accident educational lecture," project results show.
This was quite significant, for example, in case of sweet soft drinks, where more children would begin to prefer plain water.
In addition, for their main course, children ticked poultry and fish more often, limiting sweet meals and dumplings.
A Stylist Must Also Be a Good Psychologist, Professionals Claim
In the opening article on stylist training, I was complaining a bit about the amount of information in the introductory lessons.
I had no idea what was coming.
Lectures by three experts from the field; dressing tips for difficult figures; and a seminar on how it works in practise.
And more is yet to come.
The closer we get to the final exam, the more information and practical tasks await.
The training takes place every Saturday and Sunday, but it is really packed with information.
This time, together with Alenka, the Director, (there is not a single man in the course) we discussed how to dress a woman whose body is not in perfect symmetry.
A majority of women are not perfectly symmetrical.
One has a short neck, the other has a boyish figure without proper curves, yet another is overweight.
A stylist must know how to optically soften wide shoulders, make the neck look longer, or add the curves necessary.
We were given tips on how to accentuate the figure of women such as Jennifer Lopez, i.e. with bigger breasts and hips and narrow waist, and not to dress them too provocatively.
For example, if the difference between the waist and hips is such that the skirt or trousers do not fit, it is worth to have at least one piece custom-made.
You will definitely not regret the investment, as perfectly fitting clothes are priceless.
In a custom-made skirt, you will feel much better than in one that keeps shifting, rolling up, sticking out in your waist, etc.
Boyish figures, on the other hand, can wear clothes with ruffling, appliqué, embroidery, or shirring.
Given the abundance of such information and figure types, I am glad to have a whole week to sort it all out in my head.
Still, I fear it is too much, with regard to the homework we were given.
Each of the course participants was given a celebrity to create two outfits for: day and night.
We must consider their current appearance, their fashion style, and figure type.
I am to dress Miranda Kerr whom you may know from the Victoria's Secret campaigns.
Inside I rejoice, as she is so much easier to dress than, say, Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera, who has recently gained about a ton (please, understand I am exaggerating), or the very young Selena Gomez.
We must cut the clothes out of magazines or find them on the Internet and print and graphically process them.
Moodboard, as the result is called, then expresses our personal style and attitude to graphic depiction.
It is important to think about the graphic part of styling.
A stylist does not just dress physical people, but creates product pages in magazines (based on specific instructions, for example, trendy purses, coats, etc.).
This is what a stylist and designer, Mario Kameník, was telling us about.
But that was not until Sunday.
A stylist needs general knowledge
Saturday's lecture, filled with information on figure types, was livened up by three guests from the field.
A stylist, Honza Pokorný; a fashion designer, Jakub Polanka; and a fashion photographer, Ben Renč.
Jakub reminded us that fashion is an illusion, and a stylist should be able to use this fact.
A good stylist can work with a single piece of clothing in different ways.
In this case, variability is key.
For example, a trench coat may be worn in the standard way, over jeans and T-shirt, as a coat; but it may also be worn on naked body, with step-ins, as a dress.
Another option is rolling up the sleeves or collar, and the entire look changes completely.
"Play with it," he emphasised.
However, I appreciated the following advice the most: "For your work, you need to know the rules perfectly."
'Then you can start breaking them,' Jakub told us.
Here I finally understood why we drill all the definitions and rules of what to combine with what and why, while in fashion magazines we often see something else.
Not to mention fashion shows.
From Ben, the photographer, I learned that a stylist must have more outfit versions prepared than the number he is to take pictures of.
So, for a ten-page fashion story (equals ten outfits), I have to be ready to create at least fifteen of them.
Now I also know that in the picture, a piece of clothing often looks and functions in combination with others completely different from reality.
We must therefore take that into consideration when creating an outfit.
Honza Pokorný confirmed that image and style often are half the success.
Just look at Madonna, who is no miraculous singer, yet her image and marketing turned her into a worldwide star.
The attitude towards stylist services is still rather cold in the Czech Republic.
Even famous people often consider it redundant (believing it is sufficient to be good at something, and how they look at it comes second).
And if someone finally lets us create their styling, then we should expect them to give us different (smaller) size than what they really wear.
Then, we are left to Google and find out if the tabloids wrote something about a celebrity gaining/losing weight, etc.
On Sunday, both Honza and Mario were stressing the fact that for a stylist it is not enough to know about fashion and be able to create an outfit.
Our work chiefly consists of communicating with people we dress; it is therefore important to be a good psychologist.
To be able to estimate people, not to pander, and stick to one's opinion.
"If a manager asks you to go through her clothes and add some nice pieces, you cannot throw out her entire wardrobe telling her how awful the clothes are."
"Find at least a few pieces you can praise, and recommend what to wear them with" Mario says.
He also showed us what specifically a duty bag must contain.
That is the bag you fasten around your waist to carry all the props you need.
Aside from the obvious things, such as scissors, a sticky roller, or safety pins, it should have a nylon thread (for the stylist to use when taking pictures of products such as purses or hats), special clip-ons for holding the clothes in the back in case it is too large (pins and similar things are forbidden as they damage the clothes), or a sewing set.
To have some change from listening, and gain some practical experience, we learned how to properly underlay shoe soles.
Even when taking photographs in a studio where the surface is even, the soles might get damaged - not to mention shooting outside.
And so we were sticking away.
You must not touch the shoes with the scissors, to avoid any damage.
This requires real skill.
Mario pleased me by praising my job.
The skills mentioned are really not my cup of tea.
This is just a fragment of what we heard during the second weekend course session.
I am beginning to realise that to be a professional stylist is no piece of cake, no matter what people say.
V Need for Speed: The Run takes place across America.
Review
An originally carefree ride turned into a routine morning drive to work because of a series of completely superfluous and sloppy mistakes.
The ambitions were met to a certain point, but it does not matter since nobody obviously wanted to do any extra work.
Before it was released, the new version subtitled The Run created high expectations.
It promised to shift the old Need For Speed racing series in a new direction; the demos made it look like a game that might stand up in the action racing genre.
We were curious to see the sections where the main character gets out of the car and runs.
Typical for the NFS series though, in the end many things are different from what we expected.
The game represents a possibly decent arcade race, but the whole is burdened by several unnecessary mistakes featured in the series for a number of years.
This means they are not really mistakes, but the expression of an incomprehensible laziness of the developers.
The adventure opens very well.
You are introduced into a story, where the main character, Jack, decides to solve some personal issues by participating in an illegal race across America.
You get in the car on the west coast, in San Francisco, and your task is to be the first one to reach New York.
The idea brings several interesting features.
The route is divided into ten stages, subdivided into over fifty races.
This means each race takes place on a different route, and given stages are set in varied and interesting environments.
One thus does not feel the game keeps offering the same things.
Despite the graphics being on the same level of previous parts of the series, some of the environments are very nice to look at.
Still, it is nothing world-shattering.
Driving through the desert, autumnal countryside, or high in snow-covered mountains is visually very pleasant though.
In addition, the races are, from time to time, enlivened by an untypical feature.
For example, in the desert, you get into a sandstorm, significantly decreasing the visibility.
On the other hand, in the mountains, you have to be careful not to get under an avalanche.
Individual races are ordered fairly well.
There are just a few types, but it is sufficient.
For a while, you try to overtake a number of competitors (basically a regular race); then you try to beat the time (standard stopwatch race); or you are in a duel with a single rival.
On top of everything else you sometimes come across the police who make your efforts more difficult.
The parts outside the car are new.
They are just interactive animations, where most of the time Jack is running away from someone and you need to help him by pressing the right buttons at the right time.
Nothing difficult.
It is a surprise though, that these parts are much less in number than you would expect (just three to be precise).
It actually turns out to be good for the game, because this feature does not get to be boring; within what was already said, it is one of the things that make the game more entertaining.
The driving model follows the footsteps of the previous parts.
This means that it is nothing special anymore, but it cannot be considered a negative.
If you are looking for a real-to-life simulation, you will have to look elsewhere.
Still, this driving model is fully suitable for the action style racing, even though we could find better at the competition.
So far, everything is just right.
However, after some time, problems come.
In contrast with the driving model, the collision model is not that good.
From a game of this type, one does not expect complicated deformations and collisions, but when you have no idea, before crashing into any object, how your car will act, something is not right.
Typically, when overtaking or passing cars tightly in common traffic, you sometimes lightly touch the other car. Yet sometimes in nearly identical situation your car ends up in wild pirouettes.
Or, crashed completely.
This is not such a big deal due to the restart system, but is enough to spoil the fun.
The restarts are done so that if you crash or get far off the track, the game takes you back to the last interrupted point.
Nevertheless, there are only five restarts available per each race.
If you use them up, you have to start the race from the beginning.
This makes it an aid in case something does not work out, but you cannot rely on it completely.
Sometimes the restarts are not enough and you need to learn a given section of the race by heart.
A significant shortcoming of the game is the fact that the same things often happen in the same places.
For example, some turns have to be driven through in a specific way, otherwise you simply do not fit in.
At other times you meet civilian cars at a given place in the very same configuration, no matter if you come first, fifth, five seconds earlier, or one minute later.
This is especially annoying in situations where you can see how your rival drives through the two cars coming in the opposite direction so easily, while when you get there, the cars are already positioned so that you have to either drive around or slow down.
It makes no difference when you get to them; everything is set so that the situation always occurs just in front of your nose.
The competitors have other advantages, too.
While playing the game, you find several places, where, regardless of time, the same competitor overtakes you at the very same spot.
This is most obvious at the end of the game, on a long bridge, where you are driving in the opposite direction.
Obviously, your rival has to get in front of you no matter what.
The thing is that when he is driving in front of you, he makes your vision worse, which causes you to crash the car a few times in the section.
One can understand the attempt at making the game more interesting and adrenalin-filled, but it is so obvious it gets annoying quickly.
It's a pity, because despite the simple driving model, the game is entertaining and sometimes even so full of action you do not have time to pay attention to what is happening around you.
It is not important whether the reason you do not get bored is the concept with fifty unique tracks, ordering of races, or something else.
The idea of changing cars during races is unusual.
You have to watch out for gas stations along the way, as that is where you car may change despite the fact that in most of the cases the one you have is fully sufficient.
Cars are divided into three categories.
Sports cars are suitable for cities; strong American cars for straight highway sections; and exotic supersports cars for technical driving, such as along crooked mountain tracks.
The key story mode is closely connected with the challenge mode; these are the races in individual locations you know from the story.
Here, you gain both medals and experience points for your profile, common for both challenges and the story.
Various features unlock fir getting a higher driver level: starting with cars and ending with profile backgrounds.
Again, the profile is interconnected with an on-line Autolog function, which, among other things, compares the results you have reached with those of other players, and ensures community functions.
Yet another setback difficult to understand; is the situation from the last race in the story.
You and your car get into a subway tunnel (let's say you do), where you speed down the tracks in the darkness (let's say you do).
Your speedometer shows numbers from 150 to 200 km/h (let's say it does), when suddenly, a subway train comes running down from behind you, turning your car into a pile of scrap metal.
For several days, our editorial staff kept discussing whether when designing the game no one thought for a moment or whether its authors really think we are such morons.
The technical part of the game is nothing extraordinary; but the overall visual impression is mostly pleasant, sometimes even great.
It is a pity though, that in some dramatic moments, the recording, in some cases rather tragically, decreases.
This especially concerns accidents with large number of participants, where fluent recoding would not help you much anyway.
The sound is all right; the soundtrack is a matter of taste.
In order to please the widest possible young audience, the soundtrack is 'flecked in from all quarters'; but there probably will not be many people buying the game because of its music.
Overall impression of Need for Speed: The Run is quite confused.
If the game avoided those clearly redundant mistakes, we could sincerely say that The Run is the best part of NFS for the past several years.
However, the game feels unfinished.
It surely is a nice entertainment, but prepare to be blinded by the mistakes with the strength of airport spotlights.
UK's Choirs Will Sing at the Students for Velvet Concert
The third year of the Festa Academia Festival offers joining the international Students' Day and Velvet Revolution anniversary with a musical event.
It will introduce about twenty high school and university choirs.
The main focus of the festival is on two concerts taking place on November 17.
"Charles University has been greatly involved in the festival."
"Participating choirs include the Choir of the Pedagogical Department and Humanities; Václav Hampl, the Rector, will be in the committee," Jakub Čaloun, head of the organisation team says.
The climax will be a free public concert by high school choirs, which takes place at 2 p.m., on November 17, at a plaza in front of the National Technical Library in Dejvice.
Celebration Jazz Mass, a piece by an important Czech jazzman, Karel Růžička is on the programme.
In the evening, in the ceremonial National House in Vinohrady, there will be a "Students for Velvet" concert, featuring university choirs, including those from the Charles University.
The aim of Festa Academica is to celebrate the international Students" Day and commemorate the 22nd anniversary of the Velvet Revolution with dignity; as well as to present the public with top quality choir music, and to develop creative cooperation among young people.
The chief organiser is českých pěveckých sborů (Czech Choirs) in cooperation with Jan Kepler's Grammar School.
The entire event is under the auspices of Bohuslav Svoboda, Lord Mayor of Prague, and Václav Hampl, Rector of Charles University.
The festival takes place from November 16 to 20, in Prague and Pardubice.
The programme offers both ceremonial concerts and numerous musical meetings, students" happenings, matinées, and more.
For detailed information please visit festival web pages at: www.festaacademica.cz
EU Ambassadress Vicenová:
Czechs have the reputation of being negative and euro-sceptical
"Lisbon Treaty caused significant imbalance between individual institutions."
"I did not expect it to be such a tough war."
"It will take five or six years before the situation becomes somewhat stable, calm, and before all players get used to their new roles," EU Ambassadress Milena Vicenová opened her lecture at the Law Department sharply.
She proved how true she is to her "Clearly and openly about Europe" motto in the very first part of her lecture, where she described individual EU organs and the relationships between them in such a clear and intelligible, way that many lecturers from the UK Law Dept. could be jealous.
Moreover, Vicenová praised the work of new long-term President of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy:
"At first, critics said he was plain, a grey office mouse who cannot fulfil any roles; I have to say everyone was amazed at how wonderfully he acquitted his role."
"He is a person who can listen to all twenty-seven member states, communicate with them perfectly, and who has a clear vision of where the EU should be headed."
She explained her new position of foreign affairs and security policy representative as a reply to a question: "Who is the European Union? Which phone number should I call?"; i.e. as an important step to unification and better clarity of Union's policy towards countries such as China or India.
No One Wants To Ban Our Cheese Specialties
Vicenová further focused on the agenda crucial for the EU in the past, present, and near future.
She described Czech presidency from the year before last as a success.
Czechs were dealing with the coming financial crisis; they solved the as crisis; and organised the East Partnership Summit.
She said the fall of the government at the time was a great negative causing significant damage to the Czech Republic.
Currently, Czech representatives in the EU has been very busy.
As the ambassadress said, both the presidency and the following financial crisis caused an ongoing stirring.
In addition, a new seven-year EU budget needs to be passed, which is very complicated due to the current crisis.
Whether the budget will be slim and frugal; which fields will be given preference; which countries will be supported more and which less; all of that is on the coming agenda.
The ambassadress reminded the key slogans she took to Brussels: "About Europe, Clearly."
"I really do not like all the abbreviations, foreign words, and jargon no one understands.
How are citizens supposed to understand that in Brussels, people are not trying to come up with crooked or round cucumbers, different size bananas, or that someone wants to ban our cheese specialties.'
She also wants to use the EU environment better, and get more Czechs into European institutions.
Multispeed Europe Is Coming
The ambassadress says Czechs are said to be Euro-sceptics; as well as people noticing the negative rather than the positive sides of things.
She wishes more Czech representatives were involved in European institutions.
She thinks numerous factors are to blame: for example, the modesty of our candidates and their inability to write motivation letters; together with low support from the Czech side.
Along with the success of Czech presidency, she highlighted the power and cooperation of the Visegrad Group.
"Believe me that when I meet someone from Poland and Hungary, and a Slovak is coming to join us, the Frenchman next to me says: "Hey, what's that gathering about, is that the Visegrad Group again?' and he is not happy about it in the slightest.'
In the Union's future, Vicenová expects mainly new strict rules for the budget policy of member states.
Rather than a new European Federation, she finds the concept of two-speed, if not multi-speed Europe, very realistic.
"We have both countries inside and outside the Eurozone."
"We have Schengen area, and we already have an institute of reinforced cooperation."
"For the first time it was said that the countries who want are to cooperate, while those who are not willing can stand off."
"The number of such institutes will be growing; it will be a highly two-speed Europe," Vicenová expects.
In this regard, she appreciated the roles of both the Czech Republic and Herman Van Rompuy in pushing forward the rule based on which, all topics influencing the entire EU should be negotiated by all member states, and not just those belonging into the Eurozone.
Brand Story:
The IMB Innovator Starts the Second Century of Its Existence
Should someone search for the word that would best express the IMB strategy, the closest one would probably be "long-term."
To the wide public, IMB is a symbol of technological revolution; the company is seen as a highly temporary one, yet it was founded over a hundred years ago.
The company's durability goes back to its first boss, a visionary, Thomas J. Watson Sr.
He believed in his motto saying that numerous world problems can be easily solved if people are willing to think.
His motto: 'Think!' thus become an imprint around which the life of the future giant would unfold (as well as the name of its internal magazine that IMB started to publish in 1935).
Moreover, it was the foundation of company culture Watson was building carefully.
"For us in IMB, long-term thinking means continuous movement towards the future.
IMB survived and flourished for a hundred years, because it remained true to its original values, while it was not afraid to change everything around itself.
During our first century, this allowed us to transform the technology, business, and the company.
In the second century, we hope to be able to achieve even more," says current company Director, Samuel J. Palmisano, on the occasion of the anniversary.
Sophisticated System
In the 1930s, Watson approached employee care similarly to Baťa in the Czech Republic - people from IMB were among the first American employees to have a paid holiday, insurance from their employer, an elegant uniform, and a sophisticated system of bonuses for the best inventors and businessmen.
Just as sophisticated is IBM's long-term relationship with customers.
From the very beginning, the company was brilliant in exploiting talented people. It was one of the first world companies to abolish all discrimination, which rendered it with great selection.
Consistent with the anti-discrimination strategy is the current plan expecting a woman, Virginia Rometty, to take over after Palmisano next year.
She has been working in IMB for thirty years; she is currently a Director of Sales, Marketing, and Strategy.
In the last few years, IMB has been organising jams, on-line brainstorming sessions, from which many future strategies and innovations arise.
It is no surprise that the ideas are plentiful - the company employs nearly half a million people.
Institution with a Good Reputation
Company's strong business position is ensured by its strong internal and external image.
"From the beginning, the concept of IBM was that of an institution rather than a technology company,' a Harvard Business School Professor and author of a book about IBM, Rosabeth Moss Kanter, told the Economist.
"IBM is not a technology firm; it is a company that helps to solve business problems using technology," George Colony of Forrester Research consultation company adds.
As the company itself says, there is a difference between entering a market and creating it.
During the hundred years, IMB, or the "Big Blue," as it is called in the US because of its logo, has grown into one of the largest companies in the world.
It seems to be the most universal technology company - developing hardware and software; infrastructure; hosting; and consultation services within a range from servers to nanotechnologies.
It holds the most patents of all American technology companies; five of its employees were awarded the Nobel Price.
Its inventions include, for example, the cash point, pay card, financial swap, bar code, and floppy disc.
With about 220 billion dollars, based on market capitalisation, IBM has become the second largest technology company (Apple being number one) this year, overrunning Microsoft for the first time since 1996.
View Ahead
Not all of its products fitted the taste of both the customers and period. For example, IBM failed with its own operating system OS/2; Prodigy on-line services; and IBM PCjr computers.
"If your business is defined by movement forward, you cannot be emotionally attached to the past,' says Samuel J. Palmisano.
That is why IBM easily builds its foundations on many platforms - if they do not work, it leaves them.
This is how it differs from, for example, its competitor, Microsoft, which basically stands and falls on Windows, its operating system.
Perspective Technology
IBM's revenues chiefly consist of services, about one fifth for each comes from software and hardware.
While in 1990, with over a half share, it was the strongest hardware representative.
Since 2000, IBM has sold low profitable assets worth 15 billion dollars. During the same time, it has invested 58 billion dollars into purchasing of perspective technologies.
It has continued the investments even after 2008, when the modern economic crisis first hit the world.
IBM follows the legacy of its first director, Thomas J. Watson, who increased the amount of investments during the Great Depression.
So far, IMB seems to be getting through the current crisis without any harm.
Since the beginning of 2008, the price of IBM's shares has grown by remarkable 120 per cent; company's net earnings have been growing continuously.
IBM's company motto is to change everything, except for its values.
We may therefore expect that even if another crisis comes, this flexible giant will manage.
IBM History: From Cheese Cutter To Space Travel
IBM (International Business Machines) was founded in New York, a hundred years ago. Its original name "Computing Tabulating Recording Corporation" was quite complicated.
It took the name of IBM in 1924. Originally, this was a brand used for company's branches in Canada and South America.
Foundations for the later IBM were laid by a merger of four companies, the history of which goes back to the 1880s.
They owned technologies such as the legendary "time clock," i.e. a clock recording the time when employees arrive and leave work.
The architect of the new company was a businessman, Charles Ranlett Flint, who, until 1930, also presided over the company's Board of Trustees.
Flint hired a director of a competing company, Thomas J. Watson, to help him with company management.
The leader then put the IBM's founder in the shade - Watson's ideas remain the base for invincible company culture and identity.
Watson led the company until 1952.
IBM, as its name suggests, started by producing and selling various business machines - from meat and cheese cutters to cash registers.
During the first four years of Watson's leadership, the revenue doubled to nine million dollars, and company's vast expansion into all continents commenced.
Watson became so essential for the company, that after nearly forty years, his position in the director's chair was taken by his son, Thomas Watson Junior.
Under his leadership, IBM started to develop artificial intelligence and created the first programming language.
In 1960s, both people and computers from IBM helped NASA control space flights - to Mercury, Saturn, and in 1969, man's flight to the Moon.
Meanwhile, in 1964, IBM developed the first computer family - the IBM line System/360.
The classic PC that defined the computer standards of the period, called IBM 5150, came to the market in 1981.
Twenty years later, IBM sold computer production to a Chinese company, Lenovo, While buying the consultant division of PricewaterhouseCoopers, and thus commenced its full focus on consulting and high added value services.
In the past three years, IBM has been highly successful with its Smarter Planet concept.
Its goal is both smart exploitation of technologies in areas that have not yet been planned for and improving the situation in traffic or town management.
For commerce, IBM has recently introduced a Smarter Commerce platform that helps businessmen control the whole commerce cycle.
IBM's history is strong even in our country.
In former Czechoslovakia, as the first country in both Central and Eastern Europe, IBM founded its branch in 1932.
Today, IBM CZ also runs a strategic outsourcing centre in Brno.
The headquarters for both Central and Eastern Europe resides in Prague, where there also is a world level research team focusing on voice recognition.
Rychtářová about her Unfaithful Husband:
Iveto, keep the fool, I don't want him anymore!
Darina Rychtářová (53) said it is over!
After her husband, Josef Rychtář (53), became both the bodyguard and lover of Iveta Bartošová (45), Darina still hoped he would wake up and come back home.
However, she does not want to wait any longer, and set clear rules for her future life.
"Pepa may return home, but no longer as my partner," Rychtářová explained.
When Darina Rychtářová provided shelter for Bartošová in her house in summer, she probably had not the slightest idea of what was going to happen to her marriage.
Even though she had Iveta move out of Říčany 30 days later, Pepa would not leave the singer.
Moreover, he publically admitted he loved her.
After some time, Darina resigned, pretended to accept her husband's affair; and now she gave him her final goodbye.
Rychytář does not care who his wife sleeps with
Even if one day Rychtář and Bartošová would split up, his wife will not welcome him with open arms.
"He is the biological father to my sons and if he wants to spend his last days in our house, no one will chase him out."
"However, he will complete his days not as my beloved, lost and found old fool, but as a person I have certain bonds to," Rychtářová said, adding she had already disengaged herself from her husband and only insists on mutual decency.
So far, Josef does not mind that his wife closed the hind gate on him.
"I respect my wife's decision."
"I will be with Iveta, and I don't mean to change that."
"My wife decided for marriage on paper, and I respect it."
"Our company still operates; I am in charge of repairs, garden, the house, and shopping."
"Darina and I communicate in a completely normal way, only we do not share our bed anymore," Rychtář said for Blesk.
He claims that if Rychtářová found a new love, he would not stand in her way.
"We don't sleep together, and I don't care where she goes, with whom, and if she has a boyfriend.
I know it's my fault, I fell in love with Iveta, and I accept full responsibility," Josef concluded.
The Worst Feminine Habits: Do They Concern You?
When you ask men to name some typical bad habits women have, they usually come up with all of them in an instant.
Dear ladies, do you recognise yourself in the lines to follow, describing several women's habits that make the men see red?
Shopping
Does your other half complain you are addicted to shopping?
Do you need to buy at least one piece of clothing a week?
Do you like shopping, in mass sales?
If so, then your shopping may be seen as bad habit.
Some women recognise they should somewhat control their passion for shopping.
Still, who of you could resist walking through clothes shops looking for well fitting clothes and then trying them all (ideally, in various colour versions) in the changing rooms?
Shopping may be a hobby for a majority of women, but for men, it may become absolute hell.
Just remember how many times you have told your other half to wait for you outside...
Permanent Dissatisfaction
"Am I too fat?"
"I need to lose at least five kilos - should I start doing some exercise?"
"Are you still attracted to me?"
Do you find these sentences familiar?
You do?
Then, you belong to the group of women obsessed by their appearance.
Not that you should stop looking after yourself, but many men are literary allergic to their partners" constant complaints about their looks.
The stronger sex also agrees that the higher the frequency of such complaints, the more annoying women are.
Order and Cleanliness First
It is like a never ending story.
Cleaning the windows, vacuuming, wiping the floors, dusting, scrubbing the bathtub - at least twice a week.
Do you blame your partner for stepping onto the clean tiles in dirty shoes; your children for messing up a clean sink and leaving fingerprints over the glass pane in the living room that was so difficult to clean?
In case you suffer from this "deviation," try to realise that no extremes are good; and that within your family, order and cleanliness should not go first.
This harmless desire for cleanliness may threaten your relationships, as well as the entire family.
Bossing About
"Throw the underwear into the bin."
"Do you plan to wear the dirty socks tomorrow?"
"Wet dishtowels do not belong on the floor."
If you boss your partner around several times a day, he may find it very annoying.
Naturally, you mean well, you just want everything to be perfect.
Maybe, if men realised that, women would not have to boss them around so much...
Gossiping
Some women love gossiping, offending, and plotting against others.
Women are focused on relationships, which is why they like to discuss who, where, who with, how, and why.
Every now and then, probably each of us releases a gossip here or there.
Let's be frank, this is probably the nature all women.
However, there are tougher gossips, women who enjoy frequent gossiping and despise everyone. They are, especially within a female work team, very dangerous for their surroundings.
Assists of Jágr and Voráček Helped Philadelphia's Victory
During Monday's NHL match, hockey forward, Jaromír Jágr's two assists helped Philadelphia's victory 5:3 on Carolina's ice. Again, he leads the productivity of Czech players in the game.
In both cases, Claude Giroux, used the experience of a thirty-nine year old star; he added an extra pass and was announced best player of the match.
Two assists in the match also belonged to Jágr's team-mate, Jakub Voráček.
After the match, Jágr told the overseas journalists he had predicted a great evening for Giroux.
"I told him before the match he would score a hat-trick."
"I felt it."
"You sometimes feel such things," explained Jágr, after whose action Giroux scored a goal on the first Flyers" shot.
A little bit later, second score for the team bore Czech traces too.
The trailing Hurricanes' Voráček won the puck and presented it to Maxim Talbot, who scored between the circles.
A second before the first break, a home player, Patrick Dwyer, narrowed the lead in a power-play, but the beginning of the second part was led by Flyers again.
Specifically by Giroux.
After assist with Jágr, he scored the third goal; consequently, his shot was touched into a fourth goal by Wayne Simmonds.
"I love playing with him."
"I don't; want to say he's the best league player, but he's definitely among the best three," said Jágr, complimenting his center.
"I never thought that at the end of my career I would play with a hockey player like him."
"It makes me happy."
"I want to assist him."
"All those years in NHL, my team-mates tried to assist me, and now its reversing," Jágr added.
Carolina made the match more dramatic with Tuomo Ruutu and Dwyer's goal from a penalty shot, making it a single goal difference.
Further complications were avoided by Matt Read who increased the difference to two points.
"Pronger did great in our zone."
"He poked out the puck, I gained speed, and Read went on to the more distant pole."
"I aimed at him, and I'm glad it worked," Voráček described his view of the last goal of the match.
Its victory moved Philadelphia onto the top of the Eastern Conference.
Czech Montreal defenseman, Jaroslav Špaček, did not finish the match with Buffalo; he left in the second period due to an upper body injury.
Along with the experienced back, the Candiens lost their two-goal lead and lost 2:3 after a penalty shoot-out.
Tomáš Plekanec failed to score on one of their raids.
More than lost points, the home trainer was sorry for high sick rate in the back, as the match was finished with just five defenders.
"The situation is bad."
"We finished the match with just one experienced player, the rest were young men."
"However, there is nothing we can do about that, we just have to face it," Jacques Martin said.
"Substitution by substitution, it was overwhelming and we couldn't resist."
"We should have made the game simpler, moving the puck out of our zone."
"That was our weakness," a defender, P. K. Subban added.
With thirty interventions, Czech goalie, Ondřej Pavelec, helped Winnipeg's 5:2 victory over Tampa Bay.
Jets" goals, which interrupted a five-match series of losses, were shared by five different scorers.
Development of Trip Prices Since 1989
Until 1989, only five state travel agencies were allowed in the former Czechoslovakia: Čedok, Sporturist, CKM, Rekrea, and Autoturist.
As travelling to the West was strictly limited, travel agencies of the time mostly sold tours to the socialist block countries.
For their holiday, Czech tourists thus went to the sea to the German Democratic Republic; Soviet Union (Sochi, Crimea near the Black Sea); Bulgaria; Romania (both to the Black Sea); and Hungary (Balaton).
The only exception was the period from 1962 to 1972, when we had the opportunity to travel to Yugoslavia. Nevertheless, the Yugoslavian regime turned West, which caused significant limitations to trips to Yugoslavia for Czech tourists.
A great paradox of the socialistic period was that citizens of the socialist block (i.e. Czechoslovaks too) were not allowed free individual travel within the socialist countries.
If a Czechoslovak citizen wanted to travel, as an individual, to, for example, the Soviet Union or Poland, an invitation letter from the country was necessary; otherwise, individual travel was impossible.
At the time, travel agencies would offer some trips to the West, but one either had to stand in a line overnight, with a sleeping bag or have some "good friends" in the agency.
Still, that was not all.
A foreign currency assurance was essential for travels to the West. It was not granted to politically unreliable people, who were not allowed to travel at all.
Czechoslovakian currency was not freely convertible; without the currency assurance, it was not possible to obtain financial means (Western currency) for travelling West.
Most often, Czechs spent their holiday at home, which resulted in great number of cottages and summer houses, a habit that survives until now.
Since 1989, Czech tourism thus experienced a real revolution.
While until 1989, a holiday in the GDR or Bulgaria was the climax of our travels, last year, Czechs spent 4.5 million holidays in countries all over the world.
A great paradox we do not realise anymore is that until 1989, we could not freely visit the currently most popular Croatia, as it was part of former Yugoslavia.
Right at the beginning of 1990, visa requirements for neighbouring West European countries were cancelled. This started a huge wave of short-term visits of chiefly Vienna and Germany.
Czechoslovaks could not get enough of travelling to the West. Everyone wanted to go there for at least a moment.
For example, in Paris, Czech tours slept in parks in tents, because their income at the time was not enough to pay for a hotel or a pension.
A typical feature of Czech tourism then was bringing their own food (cans, salami, etc.) to save money.
Another important moment was the introduction of freely convertible Czech Crown. After decades, our tourists thus finally able to freely buy Western currencies.
Our living standards and average income were growing, which, around 1997, resulted in another important moment.
Since 1997, increased demand allowed travel agencies to prepare regular trips by charter airlines. Compared to the past, air trips thus became unbelievably cheap due to the ability to order quantity discounts.
By the end of 1990s, Czechs did not need visa for visiting nearly all developed world countries, except for the USA. This made our travelling even easier.
The next significant event in the history of after revolution travelling came in 2000. High demand resulted in the historically first direct charter flight from the Czech Republic to an exotic country, Thailand.
Since then, direct charter flights take Czech tourists to warm exotic countries. This winter, flights from the Czech Republic will reach twelve exotic destinations.
Currently about 100 thousand Czechs visit exotic countries every year!
Yet another important event of this period, symbolising our development after the revolution, came in 2008.
On November 17, 2008, the USA removed visa requirements for Czech tourists. Our country has thus permanently joined the world's most developed countries.
For the first time in history, in 2008 Czechs spent more than a half of their holidays abroad (50.3%); and for the first time in history, they spent over 15 thousand Crowns per person per holiday abroad, including their costs at the destination.
General Meeting Should Find a President, Mate Threat Returns
For nearly five months, Czech football has had no President. There exists a risk that Ivan Hašek's successor, the head of Czech Republic's Football Association (FAČR) will not be known even after another extraordinary general meeting, which is to take place in Nymburk on Thursday.
There is still no agreement as to which election rules to follow.
Without it, voting for the three candidates will not start.
Jindřich Rajchl, Miroslav Pelta, and Tomáš Paclík are eager to lead Czech football.
Hašek resigned from his function in June. When leaving, he called to his colleagues to unite and find a strong personality who would lead football in the future.
However, Hašek's era sees football back in quarrels between both association chambers, unable to agree on a common candidate.
This was fully shown on September 16, when a new President was to be chosen.
General meeting delegates wasted their trip to the National House in Prague, Smíchov, as the negotiations remained blocked, not just regarding the election method.
No agreement was reached as to who is entitled to vote at the general meeting - whether the statutory representatives only, or also officials given power of attorney.
This single point has been partially settled since, thanks to a recommendation of the Institute of State and Law, according to which representation based on power of attorney is not possible.
Arguments concerning the election rules continue, though.
The Executive Board has not been of much help either, though at its meetings, both regular and extraordinary, it is mostly preoccupied by this issue.
The view of election options has changed several times, but the key point remains the same.
The question is: How to proceed in the 3rd round to avoid mate?
"The argument is based on whether to follow the by-laws or to find another model," says one of the three FAČR Vice-Presidents, Dušan Svoboda, who represents professional football in the association's management.
Based on the model given by the by-laws, the winner of the 3rd round is a candidate with higher percentage support from the chamber he is the candidate for.
Moravia is said to accept a compromise to have a candidate with the highest percentage of total votes from both chambers win the election.
The Czech part stresses a condition that in the percentage total, the winner must gain at least two-third superiority.
"However, the two previous rounds would then lose their meaning; that would completely deny the two-chamber concept," Svoboda agrees with Moravia's arguments. He says it would be best not to bend the rules and vote according to the existing regulations.
Somewhat surprisingly Tomáš Paclík agrees with his opinion even if it is estimated that the election rules defined by the by-laws fits Pelta best of the candidates.
'I wish the elections follow the by-laws to the maximum.'
"I want to avoid all kinds of representative nonsense, as at the previous general meeting," says the owner of Viktorie Plzeň, who is a candidate for the first time; and in his statements he chiefly stood against Pelta.
Pelta remains an optimist.
He believes the new President will be known in Nymburk; he also hopes that in the future, the candidates will cooperate constructively.
"All passionate stirring will calm down with today's prospective advance of the national team into the European Championship."
"Football will be back on the happy wave, people will be more willing to cooperate," a Jablonec functionary says. Of the three candidates, he has the most experience with football management on both professional and regional levels.
Rajchl is more reserved.
"I hope for an agreement, but the situation is very ambivalent."
"It is not between people from Bohemia and Moravia, but there are attempts at purposeful adjustment of regulations."
"That may cause another blockage of the general meeting."
"I hope the common sense wins," Rajchl said.
There is not much time left for an agreement between the parties.
Some negotiations are said to have taken place directly in Montenegro; but who knows if the football generality will be complete before the match.
An extra flight that was to take, among others, the Vice Presidents Dalibor Kučera and Rajchl to Podgorica did not leave Prague in the morning due to a technical failure. An alternative was sought for in order to transport part of the executive board to the scene of the barraged rematch.
Finally, a meeting at ministry level, said to happen on Wednesday, may decide.
Minister of Education, Youth, and Sports, Josef Dobeš, would like to force the split parties inside the strongest sports association in the country to reach an agreement.
A lot is in the game: Government grants; football trustworthiness; and the planned ČSTV general meeting dealing with new direction of Czech sports following Sazka's financial problems.
Paclík Enters the Presidential Fight As He Cannot See a Suitable Candidate
If, before the extraordinary general meeting, the Head of Pilsen football players, Tomáš Paclík, saw a strong candidate, who would meet all of his expectations of a new Football Association of the Czech Republic (FAČR) President, he would not even apply for the top function.
"If there was a good quality candidate, I'd fight for him and not participate in the fight."
"But no such person has currently been found," Paclík said to ČTK.
Paclík's motivation to join the fight with Miroslav Pelta and Jindřich Rajchl is to try to prevent Pelta, reportedly the favourite of the elections, from entering the top of the FAČR.
Moreover, Paclík emphasizes that should he win, he would only remain the President until 2013, when a regular general meeting is scheduled.
In the future, he would like to see the position given to an experienced top manager, not excessively connected to football life.
"I've spoken to some people that could be considered."
"I was terrible for me to hear some of them say that at this point, they don't even want to identify themselves with Czech football."
"I'd like to change this opinion," he said.
At the moment, Paclík's strongest disagreement with Pelta is based on the latter's connection to Roman Berbr, President of Pilsen's regional football association. Berber is a man of controversial reputation, who is, behind the scenes, known as powerful lobbyist, capable of influencing the votes of general meeting delegates.
Paclík therefore finds it unacceptable for Pelta to become the President.
"If he wins, current situation will be preserved and nothing in football would move forward."
"Combined with support from Berbr, a capable businessman, this would be even more harmful for the football," Paclík said.
He is hinting at the fact that some years ago, Pelta's name was recorded during phone tapping in a corruption affair investigation; Pelta came out without a sentence.
"I don't know what prestige Pelta's victory would bring to football."
"And how would we look in the eyes UEFA and FIFA," Paclík said. He is now more detached from his former statement saying he would "sell the Pilsen club if Pelta became President."
In case Paclík wins on Thursday, he could imagine cooperation with Pelta in the future.
This opinion is shared by another candidate, Rajchl, whom Paclík supported before the September general meeting that ended as a fiasco.
"He (Pelta) would be the first one I'd go to."
'He is very capable.'
"I can see him as the head of the representation."
'But he cannot manage the association.'
"I don't poke my nose in what I don't understand either,' said Paclík, who gained a lot of attention in September, when he supported the removal of board of referees, led by Luděk Macela, replaced by Dagmar Damková.
Paclík claims he would dare to manage the association.
He refers to his skills from management of private companies; since last summer, he has been managing the Pilsen team that, with his support, celebrated its first league triumph in May.
"I have the strength to make the football environment change, to support its improvement."
"To limit the influence of some interest groups that tend to influence the disciplinary and appeal board, leading to disgusting situations," Paclík said. He does not hide his antipathy for, e.g. Sparta's Director, Daniel Křetínský.
One of his priorities would be the strengthening of relations between FAČR and the Czech Olympic Committee, with whose support he would lobby at the political top to get more money for sports from the lottery tax.
"That's one of the key things the new President should attend to."
"If taxes are imposed on gambling, as the political parties declare, I understand their arguments, but they must clearly say where the money will go," he said.
Paclík does not consider his connection with the Pilsen club a burden, though he claims that an FAČR President should be a non-party one.
Pelta is connected to Jablonec, and Rajchl to Prague Dukla.
"It's not ideal."
"Yet, I don't see a point in transferring my shares in the Pilsen club hypocritically to someone else, while coming back there in six months, " Paclík says.
Pelta Promised New FAČR Regulations That Would Avoid Election Mate
Two days before the general meeting of the football association, one of the Presidential candidates, Miroslav Pelta, promised that if he is elected, he would strive for new FAČR regulations to avoid future disputes over the election rules.
Before the Thursday negotiations in Nymburk, a Jablonec functionary remains an optimist and believes that the pre-election fight would be significantly suppressed by today's prospective success of our football representation.
Prior to the failed election in September, Pelta promised that if he was to win, he would focus on both the representation and gaining of financial means.
He decided to participate in the elections before the last general meeting at the last moment. A two-month delay thus could have been useful for him to defend his ideas concerning football management in wider context.
"People at all levels have been in football for long, and they expect the President to be known on Thursday."
"They feel it's high time someone leads the association," claims the man chiefly connected with the Jablonec club; but he spent many years in Sparta and the association's executive board.
This gives him the reason to believe he is experienced enough to manage Czech football.
He believes current problems with elections are caused by the euphoria there was in the time of Ivan Hašek's reign.
"Unfortunately, regulations that were not as perfect as we all thought were passed at the general meeting in June."
"If various representations were not accepted, we would have had a President since September," Pelta said.
He approached the rewriting of the key document of the civil association as a decoy for the delegates.
"If I become President, I will take it as my personal task, and I'm willing to take personal responsibility in case the attempt fails."
"It is a fundamental issue we cannot exist without," Pelta claims.
Other than that, he says he does not try to define himself against the rivals.
In the past, he has already announced he can imagine his cooperation with Jindřich Rajchl, whom he recognises for his legal education; he is well aware of the fact that his rival candidate should become his first Vice President.
For a long time, he did not attack Tomáš Paclík, who has constantly criticised Pelta.
"He's been in football for over a year, and gained some success."
"However, his attacks were not decent, and many people were caught by surprise by the method of his election campaign."
"This is too, is why some of them now doubt his true character," Pelta said about his rival. Pelta himself claims to be true to the proclamations he announced in September.
He sees his strongest weapon in knowledge of football, from the lowest competitions to representation.
The representation should be the shopping window of football.
"Í would also try to end all affairs, starting from the Bohemians case or the aftermath of last year's corruption scandal."
"Right after that, I would focus on negotiations with both private and state sectors, to ensure enough money for the whole football," the forty-six year old candidate told ČTK two months ago.
He then promised that his arrival to the head of the football would not mean any personnel housecleaning.
"I'd need to learn about the job descriptions of individual employees." That was his message for Strahov, where the long period of interregnum causes understandable nervousness.
Despite current catastrophic scenarios accompanying the general meeting planned, he believes that on Thursday, the delegates will not come to Nymburk in vain.
"If the only questionable point is how to perform the elections in the third round that is something we can get over."
"Football needs trustworthiness it can only gain by finally having its leader," says Pelta, who, two days before the crucial day of his career of a functionary, remains an optimist.
Rajchl Promises That under Him, the FAČR Will Start Working Hard
If, on Thursday's general meeting, Jindřich Rajchl, the existing Vice President, is to become the President of Czech Football Association, many people in the Association would reportedly not be pleased.
Rajchl promises that if he is elected, hard work will come.
He wants to establish system changes and make members of the executive board responsible for individual football areas.
He also promised to solve the Bohemians case; improve relations with both UEFA and FIFA; bring more money to football; and continue the work of the previous President, Ivan Hašek.
"As President, I'd like to focus on football as a whole."
"From international contacts with UEFA and FIFA, to representation, professional football, and performance football for the youth."
"By this, I don't mean I'd do everything on my own," Rajchl said in his interview for ČTK.
"I'm a team player, and I want to distribute the competences within the executive board so that each member focuses on a certain area."
'I'll distribute tasks strictly so that in each of these segments, football makes big steps forward."
"That would probably not please many people, as it would mean hard work, not just criticizing of the work of others," he added.
Critical atmosphere in football movement supposedly made him doubt his candidature.
"I'm known to work 20 hours a day."
"But I need to know if it has any sense; and that I won't be surrounded by people throwing sticks under my feet and question my every move," he explained his hesitation.
"However, many people told me I mustn't give up, otherwise others would follow."
"That's a trust I can't just throw away," he said.
Moreover, he says his motivation is to continue the work he started with Hašek.
"A great amount of work was done in those two years, and I don't want to throw it all away."
"Processes have been started that may bear fruit in a few years, and I don't want someone else to stop them," he said, in fear that if the other candidate, Miroslav Pelta, is elected, situation f the Association might return to the period before Hašek.
"I believe in systematic approach, which is something I don't think Mirek Pelta is competent of."
"He is chiefly surrounded by people who would do football so that it would only be for the chosen ones."
"I can be blamed for many things, but certainly not for being subjective."
"I try to be objective."
"I want to make football for everyone, because then everyone has a good time, not just the chosen few," Rajchl said.
Furthermore, he refutes the allegations he would only be a Czech President.
"Though some people try to claim the opposite, I plan to do the maximum for Moravia."
"For example, it is high time to consider about splitting the second league into Czech and Moravian parts, winners of which would continue into the first league."
"This would prevent the current situation, where there are just three Moravian units in the league, which is a problem concerning young players in Moravia," Rajchl said.
As the Presidential fight has been joined by Pilsen club Manager, Tomáš Paclík, Rajchl does not dare to estimate his chances to win.
"Nevertheless, I can still feel a strong support in the Czech chamber that elected me its Vice President, and can see I have achieved some clear successes," Rajchl said. Among his successes, he includes the saving of dozens of millions of Crowns on disadvantageous contracts, negotiating TV contracts, and negotiations about the lottery law.
On the other hand, he considers the fact that the association does not stick together partially as his own fault.
While claiming that Pelta has been 'disqualified from returning trustworthiness to Czech football', he considers the other rival, Paclík, a strong candidate that has things to offer.
"No one can doubt that he did a great job in Pilsen this year."
"If he is elected, I hope he would continue in the things Ivan Hašek started, without significant personnel changes in the committees."
"He wouldn't want to twist things for his own benefit," Rajchl said about his rival.
NKU Head: Svarc System audit has failed because of politicians.
The Czech Republic has sound control bodies and a good standard of legislation when it comes to public contracts, but it lags behind in their application.
This was said by Miloslav Kala, vice-president of the Supreme Audit Office (NKU) in an interview for Aktualne.cz.
"The Law will never be perfect, but its application should be just - this is what we are missing, in my opinion," states Kala, commenting on the current situation.
Similar conclusions are also reached by the joint audit from the Czech and German auditors.
As an example of improper practice, they cite Petr Necas's approach to the so-called "Svarc System."
The Prime Minister recently claimed that the ODS will not be burdening business owners with its checks - so is it forbidden or allowed?
"The Law must be set out one way or the other and if it prohibits something, then even the Government's head cannot prevent the work of its department, which is duty-bound to monitor and enforce," asserts Kala.
At the audit committee's session in the House of Deputies, you spoke about a joint project between the Czech Republic and Germany, within which legislation relating to public contracts in both countries was compared.
What exactly was this about?
This is about parallel auditing, which we began around two years ago.
Simply put, this is about how European legislation governs the handling of public contracts, followed by individual state legislations and then the actual practice itself.
We brought all this together, and although the audit is not yet complete, some very interesting differences have become apparent - in general terms, our legislation might be even "more concise and complete," however the actual practice is in certain aspects better in Germany.
This confirms that creating more and more concise rules is not enough, and that attention must be paid to the actual application of these laws.
What does this project actually help you with, and what do you think its outcome will bring?
This kind of joint audit could contribute to curtailing these efforts to specify our law, to reduce and perfect boundaries, when it does not have such a positive impact.
Economy means acquiring the required thing at a reasonable (which does not always mean the lowest) price, so that profiteering and possible criminal proceedings may be avoided.
However, just because we have reduced the order limits, does not mean something will be procured.
The system might become overloaded with the amount of paperwork, and those, who wish to look for loopholes in it, will be able to take advantage far more easily than if the limits had remained higher.
These are domestic problems about the practical implementation of legislation relating to public contracts.
How does the audit system work in Germany?
Is there an office like the NKU, or is it organised differently?
As far as the office is concerned, the Bundesrechnungshof functions like our NKU, and it is organised like ours, it also has a committee although it is appointed slightly differently, but basically both offices operate similarly.
Powers are also similar to a degree, though of course Germany is organised federally, so these courts of auditors are also at the member state levels - in this respect their system slightly differs from our own.
The BRH can only audit federal money, known to us as state funds.
Public funds, which, for us, are administered by regional and municipal authorities, are audited by the federal courts of auditors there.
When it comes to their legislation, is it more straightforward than ours?
Overall, I would not like to make a comparison without any specific data, nevertheless in certain respects Germany serves as an example, but it certainly cannot be said that it is better in every aspect.
Is this because, perhaps, they have better enforcement?
That is certainly not true, but again, I prefer not to make such comparisons.
It should be said that even in a country we perceive as exemplary, they encounter a whole range of problems.
If that were not the case, they would gain nothing from working with our office, would they?
Coming back to domestic legislation, what did the amendment to public contracts legislation mean for your office, is its impact being felt already?
The period since the amendment came into force has been quite short, so it has not manifested itself in our audit work yet.
Since we carry out our audits ex-post, a certain delay has to be taken into account.
As yet, we have only observed it within the process of preparing future audits - we have launched our new "fiscal failure risk detection" system, with which we have processed almost 14 thousand public contracts, and these have been analysed - that is where changes will clearly be seen, because of the changed limits, the adjusted conditions governing certain types of selection processes, and so on.
So do you see the adoption of this legislation as a benefit, or rather as another burden on the bureaucratic system?
I believe this legislation is a step in the right direction, and I hope this will be confirmed.
A problem, which may arise here, is that the law becomes "too constrained" and will not be enforceable.
Under the previous rules, parties being audited were already bound by their audit provider (for example, in the case of regional operational programmes, the regional office) to the fact that every infringement of public contracts law means a breach of budgetary discipline.
Is it worth constraining the law in this way, in that case?
I do not think this is the way.
The system should prevent those who want to attack and abuse it, but not penalise those, who make a mistake on a technicality, which does not affect the final decision.
This kind of system will only increase pressure on bureaucracy.
So how can we get out of this?
Let's see where this dead-end takes us.
The Prime Minister recently said the ODS will not be burdening businessmen with audits of the so-called "Svarc System" - what does this mean?
Is the Svarc System prohibited or allowed?
The Law must be set out one way or the other, and if it prohibits something, then even the Government's head cannot prevent the work of its department, which is duty-bound to monitor and enforce.
He may say: "Let us change this law and relax it," but he cannot say we should pretend it is not there.
The law on public contracts has relatively strict rules about the formalities which must be adhered to - which is the right way to ensure public tenders are protected.
On the other hand, it is a tragedy, when a bidder with the best offer is excluded on a technicality.
The Law will never be perfect, but its application should be just - this is what we are missing, in my opinion.
Roads are icy in places, but mostly passable.
In several places in the Czech Republic, the main roads are icy and snowy.
However, the majority of roads are passable, with extra care needed in places.
Carlsbad region
In the Carlsbad region, the roads have been usable this morning, though in some places they were icy and snowy.
The temperature has dropped to between five and ten degrees below zero, though it is expected to get warm slightly during the day.
Snowing in the region has stopped, and only a thin layer of snow remains in the lowlands.
However, the ridges of the Krusne Mountains have around 30 centimetres of snow.
In some locations there is limited visibility due to mist, according to the local highway service.
The R6 high-speed motorway and primary roads in the region are now usable without restriction.
Caution is, of course, appropriate, for example, on certain bridges, where the surface can be icy and slippery.
All secondary and tertiary roads are also passable, including mountain roads.
In certain stretches of these roads there might be remaining frozen and compacted snow patches.
Above all, at higher levels, extra care should be taken while driving.
Pardubice and Hradec Kralove region
On some roads in Eastern Bohemia, there might be a risk of black ice, at higher altitudes and in the mountains there might be a layer of compacted snow, according to the Road and Motorway Directorate.
The highway service is warning the drivers against black ice, which might occur at higher altitudes of the Pardubice region in particular.
Black ice may occur around Lanskroun, Usti nad Orlici, Policky, Svitavy, and Vysoke Myto, and particularly on secondary and tertiary roads.
The I/43 and I/34 roads have been chemically treated around Svitavy.
Snow is particularly affecting the roads in the Krkonose and Orlicke mountains.
At higher altitudes, there is a compacted snow layer on the roads around Rychnov nad Kneznou and Trutnov.
In Eastern Bohemia the day will be mostly clear to partly cloudy, and dry.
Temperatures will be between minus three and plus one degree Celsius mostly, with a light wind.
Pilsen region
The roads in the Pilsen region have been usable this morning, with extra care needed in some places. Drivers should take the weather conditions into account.
The morning will be frosty, with temperatures ranging between three and nine degrees below zero.
Due to the existing snow and subsequent drop in temperature, certain roads may be icy.
Drivers should expect mist in places, though visibility will gradually improve.
This information was reported by the region's highway service.
The D5 motorway is drivable almost without restriction, but the road services recommend extra caution between the 80th and 131st kilometre marks.
Most primary road surfaces are dry and frost-free.
Southern areas of the Pilsen and Tachov regions may have icy patches.
Secondary and tertiary roads are wet, and may therefore also have icy patches.
Drivers should be cautious especially on less frequented roads in the Bohemian Forest.
Olomouc region
Drivers should expect snow slush on the roads if heading for the higher parts of the Olomouc region.
It is a result of the chemical treatment carried out at Cervenohorkse sedlo and on the way to Videlsky Kriz.
Snowploughs were brought out by falling snow overnight, the Sumperk region, according to highway maintenance, got around three centimetres of snow.
In other parts of the region, roads are mainly passable without restrictions.
"In the Sumperk region, traces of snow have remained at the highest altitudes.
Drivers should expect snow slush at Cervenohorske sedlo in the direction of Jesenik," the dispatch officer for the Sumperk highway service told CTK today.
Their Jesenik counterparts also made an outing overnight; the roads all the way to the highest altitudes are now clear and wet following the chemical treatment, according to them.
The Olomouc region's roads are usable without restriction, while in the area of Sternberk drivers should beware in wooded areas, where roads have remained wet.
Usti nad Labem region, Liberec region
Since this morning, the snowploughs have reported several places, which are difficult to pass in northern Bohemia.
Besides certain snow-covered places, or some icy frost patches, the mountain road from Telnice to Kninice in the Usti nad Labem region is also closed, according to the police database.
Temperatures remain below zero and roads are likely to remain snowy and icy. In the lowlands, however, particularly southeast of the Central Bohemian Uplands, there are no problems and roads are mostly dry.
No traffic hold-ups have so far been reported.
Icy frost patches have been reported in particular by road maintenance around Steti.
According to meteorologists the conditions for this were perfect - rain and melting snow during the day, with a clear night and freezing temperatures.
Adverse conditions are expected on the main sections of the I/13 road between the Usti nad Labem and Liberec regions.
The closure of the Telnice to Kninice road was caused by bent tree branches, which were weighed down to road level by snowfall.
Simon Ornest: At the concerts we want a fusion of positive energy
What is your opinion on the end of the world that might come in less than a month?
It is just another startler, which we like to latch on to.
Together with The Tap Tap band, we tend to joke about it, saying that we might be the only band on earth that could draw enough positive energy to hold off or avert the end of the world completely.
In December you are even organising a unique series of three concerts against the end of the world.
Can you give our readers some details on this?
This is a nationwide fund-raising event, which we have been planning for the past two years.
We decided to make use of the marketing potential of the end of the Mayan calendar, due on the 21st of December at 11:10 a.m.
On the eve, the 20th of December, at 9pm, 3 concerts will take place in parallel in Prague, Brno, and Ostrava.
They will end at around the time when Kiribati Island in the Pacific, which is 12 hours ahead of us, reaches the end of the Mayan calendar.
Who came up with this idea?
Initially it was probably my idea, later we worked all the details out with our designer, Honza Augusta.
Apart from the fact that we want to collect enough positive energy to stop the end of the world, we also want to allow ourselves and the public to spare some thoughts for the state of our planet, when we, one day, hand it over to our children.
On the occasion of the end of the Mayan calendar, we have also prepared a range of unique items, shoes, t-shirts, bags, and original keys against the end of the world, which can be purchased at www.e-tap.cz to support our cause.
The Tap Tap band, together with other artists, also recorded the so-called anthem against the end of the world, called "The End of the World is cancelled."
It is already well received on YouTube, will it figure at the fund-raising concerts?
Of course, for the grand finale, as long as the world does not end beforehand.
It will be sung by all the artists at all the three concerts at the same time.
The anthem will also be featured in a unique live broadcast on Czech Television.
The words were written and the role of Jesus in the video clip was played by Tomas Hanak, Xindl X also sings in it...
How did you end up working with them?
We collaborate also with other personalities of the Czech cultural scene, due to organising a lot of fund-raising events and concerts...
We try to really get them involved in these projects.
It turns out that most of them are interested and enjoy working with us.
What will the proceeds from the concert against the end of the world go to?
Equipping the wheelchair-accessible educational Studeo centre, which is already in its sixth year, in collaboration with the citizens association Tap from the Jedlicka Institute for the disabled.
Tutors come in regularly to spend time with the Jedlicka Institute's students and run activities, which they enjoy and interest them.
The students themselves do not have the funds to afford tutors, so we try to provide this for them in this way.
Within the construction project at the Jedlicka Institute, a separate building is planned, which we can move into with this project.
Every concert sees the appearance of several bands and artists.
How do you select them?
We have tried to compile a programme, which speaks for all ages, including children.
For example, in Prague, Chinaski, Support Lesbiens, Illustratosphere with Dan Barta, The Tap Tap, Marian Bango and Jiri Suchy will appear.
Further details can be found at www.kpks.cz.
Are you planning any more "bombastic events" in the future?
In May, we will be making our first appearance in the Prague Spring, so we will definitely be preparing a good line-up with some interesting guests.
Next year, we would like to play at the Czech National House in New York, and I personally - since we will be in the USA - would like to build in appearances in Washington and Chicago.
Your international plans are not modest; you have already performed, for instance, in Madrid, Brussels, London, and Moscow.
The Tap Tap is nonetheless a band composed of handicapped people.
How do you cope with these journeys in terms of logistics and organisation?
It is not as scary as it might seem at first.
We have five members in electric wheelchairs, which must be transported in the luggage area; we must also, of course, carry around with us a lot of luggage and instrument cases...
Nevertheless, we have so far managed it without any problems, CSA and British Airways were well prepared for us, so much so that, on occasion, I was quite surprised.
Even in Moscow, which we have just returned from, it all went smoothly.
Thanks to these international trips, you will have had a chance to compare specific accessibility issues, public attitudes to disability and so on.
What have been your experiences so far?
After Madrid, Luxembourg, London and other places, where everything functions better than here, we have just witnessed that in the East everything is still in its beginnings.
Compared to Prague, Moscow is rather inaccessible; it still remains unusual there for a person in an electric wheelchair to be travelling around the city centre on his or her own.
Obvious things, such as giving wheelchairs priority in lifts, are not commonplace there.
Fortunately, citizens associations are emerging there too that are trying to draw attention to the problems faced by people with disabilities.
And on the other hand, where do we still lag behind more advanced countries?
There are a lot of things, which we still lag behind on...
It is important to mention that improvements to the current situation always depend on the efforts of the people who are affected.
In London and Madrid it is completely natural for people with serious handicaps to be independently out in public, and they can use the toilets, go to the museum, or wherever...
It is less common there for large groups of people with disabilities to actively take part in social life, in this respect with The Tap Tap we are a step ahead!
Public respect or accessibility is one thing, but it is only when we can become famous athletes, artists, actors, politicians, or lawyers that things will really begin to change.
So far there are only exceptional cases, people who are strong-willed.
The Tap Tap band is currently very popular, but let us look back a few years, what prompted you in 1998 to form it?
I began my job as a tutor at the Jedlicka Institute, where I was surrounded by a lot of young people, who were interested in doing something.
Since I am a musician myself - among others I play the saxophone - I started a music club with a colleague.
With time, as our moderator Ladya Angelovic says, it has grown a little out of our control (laugh).
Your popularity has only come about in the last few years, or am I mistaken?
It is true that we have been helped by creating ties to famous singers and also by our proactive work on promoting the band.
We realised that work, which goes on unseen can be like it never existed.
Thanks to funds from the European Union we can even afford top quality tutors, equipment and so on.
Was it your goal to take The Tap Tap to such heights?
From the outset, I felt there was potential to do things a little differently.
Show business is filled with things, where one imitates the other.
It is logical in its own way; all new things are taken in hesitantly and take a long time.
Things, which are unique, are few and far between, but I would dare to claim that Tap Tap is one of those things.
A person's first impression on seeing you is, of course, pity - it is a natural reaction...
But that pity is simply wasted, because handicapped people are not abandoned and suffering beings, who need to be pitied.
They are people, who can fully live life and blossom, assuming, of course, that they have the right environment for it.
I say that when a person with a handicap succeeds in something, it is not just progress for them but for society as a whole.
Has your success also been helped by your firm hand as a leader, as many people are suggesting?
If we want to achieve top class work, we must be uncompromising in many things and require a certain level of discipline.
I think this is to be expected.
Some people come to us with a romantic idea and their head in the clouds, and when they find out they have to go to rehearsals twice a week, attend practice sessions and put up with a lot of time travelling to concerts, their enthusiasm quickly disappears.
That is how it works everywhere, with every group that wants to work and wants to achieve something.
The Tap Tap band currently has twenty members.
How many of those were present at the beginning in 1998?
Only one, Ladya Angelovic.
We are an open group, people come and people go, this is unavoidable.
Those who have the interest and the drive will always find our door open.
The event takes place the day before the end of the world is expected, on Thursday 20.12.2012 from 9pm.
The venues will be Praha Incheba, Brno Fleda, and Ostrava Plynojem with performances from 12 bands and other musicians from the Czech Republic.
All three cities will be joined by a televised link-up at the evening's close for a united rendition of The Tap Tap's anthem "The End of the World is cancelled"
The concert's goal is to raise funds to equip the STUDEO multi-functional wheel-chair accessible learning centre at the Jedlicka Institute in Prague in the sum of 25 million Czech crowns.
Admission fee to the concert is 400 CZK, children under 12 years of age go free, tickets on sale from Bohemiaticket.
Poland and the Cosmos.
Last week the council of ministers of the European Space Agency admitted Poland as the twentieth member of the agency, being the second nation from the former Eastern Block (after the Czech Republic, which became a fully fledged member of the ESA on the 12th of November 2008).
Poland began close cooperation with the ESA in 1994, and in the following years it has participated in a series of agency projects.
Of course, Poland's path to the space had begun much earlier.
Polish boffins devoted their time to space flight even before the Second World War, but were not always met with understanding.
I look back, for instance, to the lecture of A Sternfeld in Warsaw's astronomy observatory, who, on the 6th of December 1933, presented ideas on his pioneering work Entry into space.
The thoughts of the young engineer (born 1905) left his audience cold, and years later Sternfeld remembered that only Dr. Jan Gadomski had shown an interest in his work.
In 1934, for his work Entry into space, Sternfeld received the Robert Esnault-Pelterie and Andre Louis Hirsch prize in France.
The above mentioned Dr. Jan Gadomski (1899 - 1966) later became a strong promoter of astronomy and astronautics.
He published hundreds of articles in Polish journals, and wrote a series of books on these scientific subjects.
Gadomski became a world-known promoter of astronautics and his contribution was, notably, recognised when a crater on the far side of the Moon was named after him.
In 1925, Poland had already built a handcar which was supposed to be fitted with a rocket engine.
Unfortunately, both the project's designer, and the project's details, are unknown.
It is not even clear, whether the rocket was intended to start the handcar or to slow it down.
Information about this rail track is only known from press articles of the time.
In 1933 the Polish artillery started their engagement in flying bombs.
The research was undertaken by the Weapons Technology Division in collaboration with Prof. Mieczyslaw Wolfke and Prof. Gustaw Mokrzycki.
From the documents, it is clear that the research reached the stage of practical tests.
Of course, the advance of the German army interrupted the research.
In 1937, the concept of a photoelectric homing rocket designed by engineer Rohozinski appeared in the trade press, and in the following year The Rocket - air torpedo and flying rocket-bomb appeared, authored by Leliwy-Krywoblocki.
Both projects were destined for military use of rocket engines.
Immediately prior to the War, all projects for military use of rocket technologies were overseen by the Provisional Scientific Advisory Board (Tymczasowy Komitet Doradczo-Naukowy) that coordinated all the work.
The Board was appointed in 1937, but after two years of activity their operations were ended by the start of the War.
Further work devoted to astronautics appeared in the Polish Press after the War thanks to the Polish Astronautics Company (Polskie Towarzystwo Astronautyczne).
The first reference to the company figures in the November issue of the magazine Problems in 1954, in which four in-depth articles are on the subject of astronautics.
In one of these, by Prof. Subotowicz, the establishment of a company is proposed, which would dedicate itself to astronautics.
At the time, there were already projects underway for artificial satellites and it was clear that cosmic research was an emerging sector.
From the beginning of 1956, the Polish Astronautics Company (PTA) sought entry to the International Astronautics Federation (est. 1951) and by autumn the PTA was already a full member.
In the following year, the PTA's first chairman, Kazimierz Zarankiewicz (1902 - 1959) was appointed Deputy Chairman for the International Astronautics Federation.
He served in this capacity until his death in 1959.
From 1956, the PTA played a significant role in the successful development of meteorological rockets RM (Rakieta Meteorologiczna), which became the first Polish rocket to enable scientific research.
The first RM-1 model was completed in 1957 and the first launch took place on the 10th of October 1958.
The rocket, with a ceiling of 1800 metres, measured around 80 cm in length and weighed a little under 5 kg.
Later, the improved RM-1A version was constructed and in the summer of 1959 launch tests were initiated for the two-stage RM-2 rocket in the Bledowsky Desert.
The rocket was 1.4 metres in length and weighed approximately 11.5 kg.
A further development model was designed for real scientific work - the RM-34 rocket was to reach 14.5 km and be tasked with monitoring high altitude winds.
Of course, in 1962 further research was stopped.
The successor to the RM rocket type was the Meteor-1 rocket, developed from 1962 to 1965.
The rocket was designed as a two-stage rocket, with a total length of 510 cm and a launch weight of 32.5 kg.
Three models were developed (designated Meteor-1A, -1B, and -1C), which differed in the room available for scientific apparatus.
In the Meteor-1A rocket, a space of 0.4 litres was available, Meteor-1B had 0.34 litres, and Meteor-1C had 0.62 litres.
The maximum altitude for all three models was 37km.
Between 1965 and 1968, the development of Meteor-2 was underway in the Aeronautics Institute, with its first launch tests in October 1970.
The Meteor-2 rocket had a launch weight of 380 kg, and was capable of lifting a useful load of 10 kg to a height of around 60km.
Subsequently built models were the Meteor-2H and Meteor-3.
Poland's admission to COSPAR (Committee for Space Research) in 1960 should be mentioned, as well as the appointment of a national COSPAR board two years later.
Poland also participated in the Interkosmos space programme for space research on Soviet artificial satellites, and in 1978, the Polish pilot Miroslaw Hermaszewski became the second intercosmonaut after Vladimir Remkov.
Abolishing the legislation on public works is not the solution.
Last week the Constitutional Court abolished the law on public works.
The resolution caused lively public debate.
It will certainly be interesting to look at this issue from a broader perspective.
Liberally oriented financial systems in the EU, just as those in the globalised world, are based on the principle of an unregulated economic competition.
Its effect means that individual financial entities and national economic systems are in a state of permanent conflict among themselves.
The cause is the principle of free trade and free, completely unregulated movement of private capital together with uncontrolled financial speculation.
Due to significant labour cost differences (salaries) there is pressure on prices.
On this basis, it should be understood that when a supplier tries to compete in a commercial tender by importing cheap goods, "the rug is pulled" from under the competition's prices to capture a greater market share and, in this way, increase its own profits.
On a wider scale, this means most businesses must move production abroad, import cheaply from abroad, or close down. The result is high unemployment in countries where labour costs are high compared to other economies.
Since private capital is not bound by social responsibility, and therefore also not by the unemployment it causes, the social costs born by the state must necessarily increase.
The whole situation is bolstered by the businessman's complete unwillingness to pay taxes, which would alleviate the economical and social harm caused in the pursuit of profit.
The situation is so well known that there is no need for actual statistical data.
The ruthless private capital practices create particular economic situations, where the State in these countries is forced to enter in the mutual competition, aiming to artificially lower the social standard of its own citizens in order to attract foreign investment.
In other words, governments stake their own citizens because of private capital while disregarding the drop in social standards.
This occurs chiefly in amendments to existing law.
The aim is to economically force the domestic population to accept prices dictated by private capital, especially in terms of salaries.
On one hand, this economic system of force, in case of long-term unemployment, on the other, restricted employee rights in the workplace.
This yields growing poverty and an increasing void between the poor and the rich.
In Germany there are already a host of food hand-out centres for the poor, who are not able to feed themselves on their own wages.
The number of these people is already in the millions.
In the name of improving the competitiveness of the German economy, it commonly occurs that properly employed people receive such a salary that the State needs to top it up to the minimum wage.
Just such a scandal was revealed in the case of auxiliary staff in the Bundestag.
The austerity measures for all the southern EU states will undoubtedly lead to the same situation, where people are pressured by a catastrophic drop in living standards to emigrate as it was in the 19th century, or to eke out an existence on starvation wages on the edge of society, in the hope that the country will eventually see some foreign investment.
At this point we have to ask where this may come from?
If it is to come from other EU states, then poverty is being shifted from one country to another, or it will not come at all, because Chinese, Indian, Brazilian, Turkish, Moroccan, Egyptian, and African labour is still at a fraction of European wages.
This applies to all of Latin America.
Liberal theory and the Media incessantly claim that the State may not participate with capital in its own economy, and that a controlled economy leads to economic ruin.
Private capital cruelly insists on the viewpoint that the State must not intervene in the economy.
Thereupon, we should ask ourselves whether private capital has no influence, or whether it actually leads politics and thereby the whole country, for its own selfish ends.
Here, the answer must be yes.
The proof is the existence of the almost omnipotent, and in all states, omnipresent lobby.
The result is a desperate situation manifesting itself through corruption, through mutual benefits and legislation, where almost everything is criminal, but nothing is punishable.
In Germany the situation is such that state ministries, through lack of financial resources, contract out the drafting of laws to private law firms, who are basically connected with industry.
These laws are then approved in the Bundestag.
Real power does not come from the people as the Western-style constitutions claim, but from strong financial organisations that look after their own interests.
It is clear that liberally-orientated democracies will now quickly reach a situation, as is described by Appian in his work on the Roman Republic Crisis in the time of Cesar and Pompei: "The State was already long in complete degeneration and its offices taken by force.
With bribery, illegal acquisition of benefits, and with stones or swords.
Bribery and corruption were rife and unhindered, and the people would vote for a result which had been bought" ..."people with principles did not run for office, so on one occasion the whole debacle meant the state went eight months without consuls.." .."There was actually talk about the only answer to this terrible situation being autocracy, and an energetic man should be elected." Appian had Pompei in mind, but it was Cesar who changed democracy for autocracy permanently.
The conclusion, just as in antiquity, the current society is built on unscrupulous tendencies for personal gain without regard to the interests of society as a whole.
Private capital in its present state is not able to understand the interests of society as a whole.
The outcome is now, as it was then, an unprecedented decadence of the elite with no attempts whatsoever on deeper reaching reforms.
The causality of the rise of the fascist and communist regimes should therefore be sought in the misguided liberalisation of the economic system in the 19th and 20th centuries.
The current state of affairs, when we consider the demise of those systems in favour of liberalised democracy as an interlude, can expect its next cycle.
The particularly catastrophic reality is that the current elite is completely ignoring the potential lost of hundreds of thousands of lives, humanitarian and social disasters, which we are already witnessing, as well as crimes against humanity, as we are familiar with from ancient and modern history.
The abolition of the law on public works is not the answer, at least not in the long term.
Under the pressure of economic competition, internationally as well as within Europe, the Government of the Czech Republic will be forced to pursue ways of lowering the population's living standards.
This pattern is thus systemic.
To address this, there are targeted political and social reforms, which strengthen the state's capital participation in the economy, increase the people's influence over the state and weaken the monopoly held by private capital over society in favour of the state.
Israel: Chaos Lab.
"Nothing comes from violence and nothing ever could," from Sting's Fragile, where one of the main verses from the refrain is "Lest we forget how fragile we are."
"If my sons did not want war, there would be none," said the dying Gutle Schnapper, wife of Mayer Amschel Rothschild in 1849.
The latest wave of violence between Israel and the Gaza strip, as always, has sparked a lot of reaction.
Some stand by Israel, arguing it has the right to self-defence, and Palestinians are portrayed as terrorists, while others support the Palestinians, claiming racism by the Israeli state, claiming that genocide is being committed against Palestinian Arabs, and that Israel is a terrorist state.
I do not want to dwell, in these repeated periodic waves of killing, on who is the transgressor and who is the victim, after all, today's inhabitants of Israel, including the self-governing territories, were born into the current political situation, and did not live through the start of the violence.
I would like to offer the readers a peek behind the scenes, a look at whom, most of all, this 95-year long tension is serving (starting from Balfour's declaration in November 1917) on this small piece of land in the Middle East.
Some of my thoughts are supported by available historical facts, while others are derived from my own understanding of who, that is, which group of people is the main source of events in modern history.
Human history is in the first instance about the struggle for power.
In every era we can find an Alexander the Great or a Napoleon.
What is not quite so apparent is whether these were the people, who had chosen their path independently, or whether behind their throne stood someone who directed their actions towards a pre-calculated goal.
We must accept that we live in a time when the world's wealth is concentrated into the hands of a few individuals, and that this concentration of wealth and the power it exudes could not happen in one generation's lifespan.
Among these astronomically rich families, one stands out, which could be considered the puppet master (whether someone else stands above them, I am unsure, but I would not rule it out) - the Rothschilds.
Not much is written about them.
Understandably.
The first news agency (Reuters) they bought in the 90's of the 19th century, in order to prevent their name being connected with acts of high criminality, which appeared in their background and which always meant securing power, increasing wealth, or both.
They hold majority stakes in almost every central bank in the world, and against the countries, where they do not hold a stake, they are either waging or preparing for war (before the assault on Afghanistan it was 7 countries, after Iraq it was 5, after the overthrow of Kaddafi 4 remained, but in the meantime Russia submitted its central bank to the Russian Government).
Whoever attempted to defy this family died.
Abraham Lincoln refused to renew the status of the central bank to the Rothschild Bank of America, and during the Civil War he began to issue his own (that is state-issued) money and was assassinated in 1865 at the theatre.
JFK began issuing his own money and wanted to close the Fed (Federal Reserve), and was killed in 1963, Congressman Louis McFadden was poisoned in 1936, after he had intended to sue the Fed for causing the Great Depression of 1929.
Their thirst for global power led in the years of 1859 - 1871 to the formulation of a three-world-war plan by the freemason leader of the 33rd degree, Albert Pike.
The first war was to remove the large monarchic state bodies in Europe, the second was to remove colonial rule, especially from Great Britain, and the third will reduce the world's population down to 0.5 - 1 billion people (this number of slaves will suffice for their comfort and luxury, and will not use up so many resources), the creation of one universal faith (ecumenism is just an appetiser for this solution), and finally the seizing of absolute power.
The method, which the group of wealthy families with the Rothschilds leading the way, employ is the instigation of crises, followed by the offering of a solution (order ab chao - order from chaos).
These solutions are false, however, and always lead to a worse situation (vide establishment of the Fed, so that the crisis of 1907 would not be repeated).
Thus, having succeeded in assassinating Ferdinand, the Habsburg heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne, in Sarajevo thereby unleashing World War I, they destroyed tsarist Russia with the Bolshevik revolution.
The First World War ended abruptly, militarily and economically unsubstantiated, with German capitulation (the war was no longer needed to destroy tsarist Russia) and the central European powers of Austria-Hungary were subsequently dismantled.
To facilitate the inception of the Second World War, they allowed bankers and politicians to create a latent conflict situation by saddling Germany with huge war reparations, thereby making a radicalist example of the impoverished masses, it remained only to introduce a sufficiently convincing culprit and a leader with a simple solution, while also creating a multi-racial Czechoslovakia with a strong German minority to play, and indeed did, the role of a fifth colony, once the war had been ignited.
At the end of the 19th Century, the Rothschilds instigated the establishment of the Zionist movement, one branch of which strove to form the Jewish State, seeking out an area of historic Judea, Jerusalem, to make its capital (the Return to Zion).
The aforementioned Balfour Declaration formed the basis for the mass immigration of Jews to Palestine, where the first conflicts began with the local Arab population.
Terrorist attacks occurred on both sides.
World War II broke out, and whether Hitler broke free from the leash, which international bankers were holding him on, or whether his actions were all part of the plan, is difficult to determine, nevertheless the suffering of European Jews in the concentration camps created the foundation to the world's acceptance of the Jewish State.
Israel was officially formed in 1948, and just as the war reparations for World War II were layed on Germany, the announcement of the State of Israel became the third war's hotbed.
Provided the international bankers succeed, the Jewish Nation, as with the second, will be the victims on the front line, now together with the Arabic - or more generally, Muslim - population of the Middle East.
Israel is like a huge laboratory, a source of discord and chaos not only within the country, but on an international level (just look at how strongly people are split into supporters and opponents of Israel).
Who is the wrong-doer and who is the victim in the Palestine-Israel conflict, where injustice breeds injustice in an endless cycle of violence, while everything began from the greed of a few and their lust for global power?
Here, we must differentiate between Israel's general population and their leaders, because, just as it happens here, the international bankers introduce their own selection of candidates for people to vote for.
Israel's current prime minister, Netanyahu 'the hawk', is a typical example of a fascist politician, loyal to the international bankers, who does everything to instigate war with Iran, which would, due to its membership in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (China, India, Russia, Pakistan, ...) lead to a greater threat of global conflict, and through its control of the Hormuz Strait, where 20% of the world's oil must sail (the channel is only 2 miles wide), to the destruction of the world's economy.
In what light stand the words, spoken by David Rockefeller in 1994: "All we need is a major crisis and the nations will accept the New World Order."
The New World Order in their eyes is one of master and slave.
A world where the rest of the human population serve the luxury of a handful of financial aristocrats.
A world, where each new-born is implanted with a chip, which makes their existence completely subjugated.
"He also forced everyone, small and great, rich and poor, free and slave, to receive a mark on his right hand or on his forehead, so that no one could buy or sell unless he had the mark, which is the name of the beast or the number of his name.
If anyone has insight, let him calculate the number of the beast,
for it is man's number. His number is six hundred and sixty six."
Argo: When things are at their worst - call Hollywood.
In November 1979, a mob of Islamic student demonstrators took over the American embassy in Tehran and held 52 diplomats hostage.
They were to be released in exchange for the overthrown Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, who fled after the revolution to the USA, which had actually supported his regime for several decades.
For the American administration the situation did not offer a positive solution - it could not throw the Shah overboard, because this would seriously jeopardise the trust of other allied countries.
The release of the hostages in Iran, where the revolution resulted in the establishment of the theocratic regime, could not be achieved.
This was a blow to the prestige of the United States, which was later compounded by the fiasco of attempting to free the hostages by force.
The incarcerated diplomats were finally released after 444 days, following negotiations mediated by the Algerian government.
Their ordeal provoked a wave of solidarity and anti-Iranian feelings at home.
The debacle in Iran significantly influenced Jimmy Carter's loss with Ronald Reagan in the 1980 presidential elections.
The film Argo, directed by the actor Ben Affleck, recounts one episode in this story, which brought America a small victory.
Just before the embassy was seized, six employees escaped.
After some peripeteia, they ended up in the Canadian ambassador's residence.
The CIA, in collaboration with the Canadian authorities, succeeded in getting them out of Iran, helped by an extravagant cover story - they left on Canadian passports as members of a film crew, who were surveying locations for a sci-fi blockbuster.
A combination of genres
The plan, conceived by "exfiltration" expert, Tony Mendez, required the assistance of Hollywood.
For the story to be believed, the film project was reported on in specialist magazines, press conferences were organised, and the fictitious production company had a real office.
The details of the operation were, for a long time, kept secret; the film draws on the memories of Tony Mendez.
Affleck's film is a peculiar mix of genres.
On one hand, there is a realistic incisive political thriller, and at the same time a "caper movie," with small victories and double-crossing - another example would be Ocean's Eleven.
The mood alternates in the film - on one side, sharp documentary-style sequences in Tehran (the title sequence shows iconic photos from news of the time, relating to the same events portrayed in the film - there are no big differences).
On the other hand, lighter sections from Hollywood, laced with irony and a little exaggeration.
Then there are scenes from the CIA headquarters and other agencies - men in suits debating the situation around meeting tables, in office corridors, over the phone...
Ben Affleck has managed to restart his career in extraordinary style.
The derided actor has become a respected director, and his acting is no longer the target of ironic comments.
Argo is his third big-screen movie, following his dark crime movie Gone Baby Gone (2007) and the thriller The Town (2010).
It is also Affleck's first picture, which does not take place in the director's hometown of Boston.
The atmospheric feel in different locations is one of the characteristics, which took his earlier films above Hollywood standards.
Affleck shows it in Argo, where Tehran is "featured" by Canada.
The best scenes of the film take place in the streets, in the reconstruction of real events - the opening sequence of the siege on the embassy is impressively lucid, creating at once feelings of confusion and surprise, which come flooding in, as history suddenly takes a turn.
A similar effect is achieved by Affleck and his team in the fictitious scenes (the fake staff at the Tehran bazaar).
Too much action in too many places
The director had to tackle the issue that the story being told does not offer many nail-biting scenes for the film.
What little there is, is worked well, with some occasional embellishments to reality - these do not all come off so elegantly (the scene, where a looming crisis is averted at Tehran airport by a phone call in America, followed by a chase on the runway seems quite far-fetched).
Argo's weakness is its divergence, which comes from the need to show too many events in too many places.
Alan Arkin and John Goodman play their roles as the Hollywood assistants with great charm; their characters deserve more room, and are not by far the only ones in this film.
Affleck's film loses the dramatic pull a little, it is a film, which can be watched with reasonable interest, its production and retro-style are evocative of thrillers from the 70's.
It does not really captivate.
As a reminder of history's particular ways and a testimony to how exaggerated the views are on the all-powerful all-controlling secret services, this will do.
Rules for blowing up balloons, for bananas and a circus
The www.bankovnipoplatky.com server, which issues a poll every year on the most absurd bank charge, has now decided to announce a competition for "the most absurd regulation or proposal from the EU."
"We were prompted by the latest story, where the EU plans to take on a 40 percent quota of women at management level of Europe's largest companies," Patrik Nacher, the poll's organiser, told Pravo.
Among the latest nominated absurdities, for instance, is the recent decision by the European Court to unify insurance premiums for men and women.
Until now, women were favoured in life insurance prices, because they constitute a lower risk for insurers.
"Other unbelievable ideas from the EU can be nominated by anyone until the end of the year.
The actual voting will then take place until the end of February 2013," informed Nacher.
Among the controversial EU regulations, we might include the mandatory addition of bio-ingredients to fuel, which consequently harms the environment, the ban on reliable mercury thermometers just because they contain a relatively small quantity of a toxic substance, or the rules on the size of chicken cages, which significantly raised egg prices this year.
The ban on the use of the term "spreadable butter" and the withdrawal of classic light bulbs from sale had previously come under criticism.
First rate bananas are to measure 14 centimetres
The Union's machine often makes decisions under pressure from this or that commercial or industrial lobbying group, whose demands in Brussels are usually defended by state or group of states' interests (just as the Czech Republic is promoting the demands of its banks under threat of being vetoed).
The lobby's interests were, for example, that bananas of the highest quality should measure at least 14 cm in the EU, and were not to display and "anomalous curvature."
The European Commission defended itself, saying that it was only harmonising existing disjointed national standards, which complicated trading.
Norms relating to fruit and vegetables have already been softened by the EU despite opposition from certain states, referring to the food waste caused by the existing directives.
One possible prize-winner in the poll may be the last year's EU regulation according to which inflatable balloons must be sold with a warning that children under 8 years of age may not inflate them without parental supervision.
Here, the EU pointed to an American research, which indicated that, among other toys, balloons are one of the main causes of child suffocation.
A similar restriction now applies to children under 14 years of age using party blowers.
Strange ideas are conceived at home too
Fairly absurd is the rule relating to individual European officials - everyone in the EU, who holds an official post, may not use the term Macedonia due to it being a sensitive topic for Greece, and instead the acronym FYROM (Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) should be used.
The Bankovnipoplatky.com server in collaboration with the Liberal Economist Association, Laissez Faire, also nominated, aside from the aforementioned absurdities, for example the Union's regulation on the volume of food provision stocks held in an EU member state.
The EU stipulated the maximum volumes of food provisions, which may be present within the CR on the day of our entry to the Union.
The Czech Republic thereafter exceeded, for instance, the permitted volume of mushroom preserves, which incurred a high penalty.
The poll's organisers were also impressed by the idea of paying certain countries because they do not have a coastline, or the suggestion of allocating funding for a request for funding.
These ideas did not come from Brussels, however, but from Prague.
"We are handicapped because we do not have the sea.
We are asking the European Union for a refund," declared the minister for agriculture, back in autumn 2004, Jaroslav Palas (CSSD).
His argument was that there had been a good harvest of cereals, and due to the so-called buy-out interventions, the state's warehouses were full and were forced to export.
The Czech Republic is further away from a port, so according to Palas the EU should be paying us hundreds of millions of Euros.
The European Commission finally met the CR halfway by organising a tender for the purchase of cereals from countries that do not have access to the sea.
Funding to subsidise funding requests was offered to foreigners by the Ministry for Regional Development's minister, Pavel Nemec (US-DEU), specifically this was meant for making requests for funding from Brussels.
EU: Bizarre legislation is the exception
Regulations may well become the target of criticism among member states, but the EU's efforts at regulation, more effective operation, and development of the entire Union deserve recognition, according to a number of experts.
A more important issue, according to experts, is the drawing of EU funds on projects, which have hardly anything in common with strengthening the European integration, but which was pushed through by member states during a budget meeting.
Emotions flare among Czechs when, just as other countries in the Union, the CR must fight in Brussels for the right to particular labelling on its traditional products, in which it does not always succeed.
The Czechs fought for six years with the Germans and Austrians to protect the labelling of their Olomoucke tvaruzky, however the tuzemsky rum, whose tradition reaches back to the 19th century here, had to be renamed tuzemak by the manufacturers.
The appellation of rum can only be given to products distilled from cane sugar, and not sugar beet.
Carlsbad wafers, Pohorelicky and Trebonsky carp, and Zatec hops have been added to the official list of registered products of the EU, alongside the world-renowned feta cheese and gorgonzola, German marzipan from Lubeck, and Parma ham.
The EU's stamp of protection can also be proudly shown on Pardubice gingerbread and Horicky tubes.
People want me to save the republic, but I am an amateur, says Okamura
Senator, how does a person decide they want to run for President?
This is not about me being a senator or president.
If everything in our country worked without problems, then I would not be running for any post.
I cannot watch any longer the country having been robbed over the past twenty years, thieves roaming about there and people's taxes and retirement age increasing.
I had no ambition to be a politician.
When I see something I do not like, though, I try to find a solution to change things.
Since I have already turned forty, and I am an independent non-party man, I have no other choice to influence things but to stand for senator or president.
You have already reached the Senate, but shortly after that you are taking off for the Castle.
Are you not turning your back on those who voted for you in doing this?
I have been saying the entire time that I would fight for the Castle based on the results in the Senate's elections.
Later, I added that if I were elected as senator, I would be standing for president.
My goal, though, is not the post, the post is a tool to allow my vision to be realised.
Therefore, I need the greatest influence, and the strongest mandate possible.
The trouble is not just that as a nation we swear in the pub or at the television, but that we trample anyone, who wants to try to change things.
The Media add to this, misleading the public, and mistaking freedom of speech with freedom to lie.
For example, I was allegedly bribing reporters, or I was allegedly an advisor of Jiri Paroubek.
Let's talk about your vision.
You set out on your castle siege with a thesis on the material and criminal responsibilities of politics, and a retroactive financial disclosure of assets over twenty million.
You need to change the law for this.
As president, though, you do not have this power, and only the Senate as a whole may propose laws.
How are you going to solve this?
When I lobbied, as a citizen, for tour guide work to be a free trade, it was successfully carried through.
The problem is political squabbling - when someone comes with a good idea from the left or the right, it will be deliberately rejected, causing delays for the public.
As an independent non-party man, I stand a far better chance of gaining support from all parliamentary sides.
The advantage I hold is that without the political pigeonholing or dogmas I can take what is best for our country from any side, and apply it.
Do you see yourself as a person from the right, or the left?
From the Czech viewpoint, it seems they tend to put me to the left.
For me, it just does not matter if it is a little to the left or right.
The important part for me is moving forward.
It is not about whether someone is from the left or right, I just want to bring people together.
I always support any good public solutions, even if they are put forward by the KSCM or the ODS, and, in the same way, I will oppose bad ideas.
You get angry when someone calls you a populist.
Are you not confirming this with what you have stated?
When you make a company business plan, you also have some ideal goal and vision.
You try to come close to it.
Some may call it populism, but all the proposals I speak about are already working elsewhere, or they have been put forward by experts.
But without the support of the Parliament you will be left with just slogans.
You will not last long in politics with that.
Or do you believe that if you walk among the public and talk with them, that you will succeed, say, in passing criminal and material responsibility?
I have no alternative.
I need to convince politicians, reporters, and the public, and try to get them on my side, so we can put this through.
If I were elected president, it would not be a problem to arrange a live television broadcast, where I ask the leaders of the parliamentary parties to pass a law on material and criminal responsibility for politicians, civil servants, judges, and the Attorney General.
And, as the case may be, they would need to explain why they did not want this.
When there is a strong figure to point out the issues, it just needs some pressure on the political scene.
Take for instance the direct election of the president, it was achieved thanks to public pressure.
I will say frankly that I am an amateur, I am not a genius or an intellectual.
I am looking for allies to share my opinions and vision.
I have just started out in politics, and I am looking for a majority support for my agenda.
I will try to make things progress, but it if does not work out, in six years I will finish and return to the private sector.
It sounds a little like Okamura is trying to save the Czech Republic.
I am no saviour.
I know that alone I will not achieve anything, so I have asked acquaintances, whether they would run for the senate.
I went to Radim Jancura, who declined due to his workload.
So I, at least, support investigative journalist, Jana Lorencova, who uncovered fraudulent activity with light heating oil.
I put myself forward, because people are really discontented, but now I have my doubts.
Sixty percent of people did not go to vote, and those who did mostly voted for leaders of the establishment.
In the senate, there are only two independents, including me.
People have voted for a senate that will make it difficult to enforce changes.
Nonetheless, I will fight for my vision, for example, for the direct election of mayors or regional council presidents.
Are you considering having your own party?
I have not considered it yet, because I have neither the time to verify that every party member has a clean background, nor the money to do it.
I have no money even for a presidential campaign, my transparent account holds just 20 thousand.
You have no money?
You are talking about financial disclosures, but what is yours like?
I estimate my private assets to be around 60 million.
In Prague, I have land worth around 25 million, an apartment worth ten million, another apartment worth eight million, an artwork collection worth around ten million, an Aston Martin worth 3.5 million, a Skoda Superb worth a million, and I have a few million in my account.
I have the Aston Martin, by the way, because it was my dream as a boy - I always liked James Bond, who drove the car, was gallant with women and also fought against evil and villainy.
You drive an Aston Martin, have assets worth 60 million, but you have no money for a campaign?
You say you want to change the Republic, but you are not keen on putting your own money into it.
This does not inspire much confidence.
I do not have 15 million for a campaign.
Should I take out a loan?
I have already put 2.5 million into the campaign.
The fact that I do not have any sponsors is evidence that there is no real interest in my programme.
I have no obligation to pay for my own campaign.
The expenditure on my campaign is basically covered by the pay I will be receiving as a senator.
However, I would not be able to live on it, for instance, I could not pay for my son's English school, which costs 30 thousand a month.
If I were only interested in making money, I would not be standing for election.
So you will still be in business so that you can make a living?
Did you not say you would be putting this on hold?
This depends on the rate of pay.
As I promised, my activities have been partially reduced.
For example, my deputy is taking over as the CEO of the travel agency in spring.
People would like me to be a Samaritan, who saves the Republic.
But I must also live off something.
As a businessman, what would you usually make monthly?
Two hundred to 400 thousand, which I still do.
And if I became president, then I would end my business activity.
The full interview can be read in Saturday's issue of Pravo.
Petr Čech: Transfer at the last minute?
Everything is possible
Today is the last day when it is still possible to jump through the transfer window and make a major change.
The next chance won't come until winter.
Petr Čech is currently a substitute goalkeeper for Chelsea, but now he does not await a new professional contract in Madrid, Monaco or even Paris.
He is sitting at the NH Hotel in Prague, talking to Czech reporters, and he is planning to participate with the Czech team in a rehearsal match with the Americans, after which he will also start the process of qualification for Euro 2016 against the Netherlands.
Chelsea will give priority in the new season of the Premier League to Thibaut Courtois in the goal, and Čech for the first time in ten years in the London team has ended up in the position of substitute.
Some time ago, it was speculated that Real Madrid might be interested in Čech.
At the start of the season, he lost the Spanish Super Cup in competition with Athletics and did not even manage to enter the league season, when he lost 2:4 in San Sebastian.
Interest from Paris SG was also speculated about.
It started the French League season with two wins and two draws, and on Sunday it defeated St. Etienne 5:0.
It is putting the most pressure on AS Monaco.
It so far has a balance of 1-1-2 in the league, and over the weekend it parted with Lille with a 1:1 tie.
Today news appeared on tabloid English-language websites stating that the Queens Park Rangers may want Čech.
However, according to English bookmakers, Čech's departure from Chelsea at the last minute is not very likely.
Skybet assigned him odds of 4:1.
Petr, is it possible that during the remaining few hours you will change your uniform?
I don't anticipate it, but in soccer nothing is ever 100%.
For example, during the day an offer can arrive that can't be refused.
How would such an offer have to look?
(laughs) "Well, I don't know yet, how the kind of offer that can't be refused basically looks.
There would have to be a consensus among all parties, and mainly would depend on Chelsea's position as to whether or not to examine the offer.
Is it even technically possible to make such a transfer when you're in Prague now?
Wouldn't it be necessary for you to sign a new contract somewhere in a new location?
Well, I haven't considered that.
But in such a situation, there are a lot of players today, and all of them are somewhere in representation matches, and certainly today a lot of transfers will be finalized.
So it could be somewhat achievable.
How many clubs are there in the world that could afford you?
Well, I really don't know.
And are you not pushing for departure?
The situation when I have not ended up anywhere as a goalkeeper in the first three games of the new season is new for my fifteen-year career.
Nonetheless, there is no need to panic, pack up and go somewhere.
I want to stay in the competition for the position of Chelsea goalkeeper, and it's up to the coach who gets selected and what decisions he will make in the weeks to come.
What role has your family played in your decisions?
I take all factors into consideration.
Sports prospects are understandably important for me, but I also look at everything from a personal point of view, which of course includes consideration for the family's needs.
Is it possible that you could play as a goalkeeper for different team in England?
That's a question that I though would never apply to me.
But in soccer everything is possible.
I don't want to rule out anything.
I don't know the answer.
When an Eastern dictator preaches about democracy.
At a meeting of his youth organization, which must resembles Hitler Youth, rattled his sabers by pointing out that Russia has nuclear weapons and basically made clear to everyone that he doesn't care about their opinions, today he gave us a lecture about democracy.
However, I have the feeling that the current regime in Russia has many characteristics of a Fascist state.
Large countries have one thing in common, and that is that they can both take advantage of passionate nationalism and transform an inferiority complex into imperialist appetites.
Time apparently passes differently in the East than in the West.
While the Western world has been believing that the era of wars and dominance over Europe is over, in the East they think on the contrary that they have been overlooked for too long already and that it is necessary to regain their international position.
Such moods and frustration prevailed in Germany in the 1930s, shortly before the Nazis took power, and that was followed by an eruption of nationalism not unlike today's situation in Russia.
The absolutely identical cult of a powerful leader, beating of journalists, liquidation of political opponents and discrimination against gays and other minorities are all very close to that mindset.
Vladimir Putin and certainly many Russians apparently miss the time when Russia ruled half of the world and the other half feared it.
Western politicians must have caused it themselves, maybe by not patting Vladimir on the shoulders enough, maybe by not inviting him to where he wanted to go and maybe by starting to underestimate him, after which he just behaved like a typical Russian strongman.
He established order at home, he acted like he didn't even want to go anywhere, and he sharpened his knives at home.
Now he has decided that he wants to regain his country's lost position.
He'll start gradually, because he has time.
He'll probably be leader for life, so why hurry?
He stepped on the Caucasus, now he's stepping on Ukraine, and the dwarfs from the Baltics are probably next.
They have been a thorn in the eye of the Russian bear for a long time already.
This certainly will also be noticed by China, who has been making a lot of waves and has its eye on the Far East.
And the Germans too are really upsetting Vladimir with how well they are doing, and we really kicked their asses in 1945.
How about establishing a Novorossiya in Karlovy Vary?
That could be a small base, and there are plenty of compatriots there, and they are so oppressed there, and some locals already have wanted to demolish some of their houses.
After all, our veterans still remember how well they had it in Czechoslovakia.
And their prime minister, Gospodin Sobotka, he so soft that he can be peeled like an onion, and with him their entire EU too.
That's how it would play out, so that great Russia could re-emerge.
They need to be reminded where their place is.
And we can use our countrymen who live on their territory as weapons.
There are plenty of Russians everywhere, and when it is said that they are oppressed, then they are simply oppressed, and we will not leave it like that, but we will protect them.
And then the Russians will be in control again, because what else are they born for after all?
After all, Europe is merely a stepping stone, on which proud Ivan can do a Cossack dance.
The serial "Game of Thrones" presents more tricks in the fourth series
The creators of "Game of Thrones are currently filming episodes of the fifth series of the iconic serial.
So far, they can boast of how the tricks of the fourth series were created.
The most visible features are computer modifications of the serial's environment and mass scenes, when the giant Daenerys army emerges from a crowd of soldiers.
Vrba at event: I'm behind Váchou.
And Lafata has a fever
Today before noon, the Czech soccer team met in Prague ahead of the Wednesday preparatory match with the United States and the subsequent initial match of the qualification for the European Championship in the Netherlands.
One of the team's 23 members, Sparta's offensive player David Lafata, has a fever.
David is not here yet, but last week Sparta had some problems, which involved multiple players, and David apparently still has some of those problems.
But we want him to be here and for him to be feeling better as soon as possible," coach Pavel Vrba told reporters.
"Whether it will be two or three days or he will be fit tomorrow will depend on his health condition, about which our doctor will decide.
The other players are fine.
"Of course, someone has some pain from time to time, but it's not so bad that they cannot practice or participate in the match with the United States on Wednesday," the Czech coach said.
On Sunday evening, Vrba called up Sparta reserve player Lukáše Váchu last.
He has admitted that it was not an easy decision, and other mid-fielders were considered.
"I made my decision based on the fact that Lukáš is a perspective player who is 25 years old.
The decision was very difficult, but I stand behind it," Vrba said regarding Váchu.
And what about Šural?
Time will tell what will happen with Lafata.
The possibility that the nomination could still be changed if there are health problems cannot be ruled out.
Over the weekend, Liberec's Josef Šural, for example, performed excellently when he did a hat trick.
Of course, they are players who have been demonstrating their talent recently.
Time will tell how David Lafata will feel.
If he will not be available on Wednesday, then I don't claim that I cannot nominate another player who has performed well in the Czech league to replace him," Vrba said.
This afternoon, the Czech team will face training in Strahov, and on Tuesday it will face traditional pre-match training before the duel with the United States at Letné, which will be open for fans and will be followed by autograph signing.
The match with the Americans will start on Wednesday at 8:15 p.m., and in it the national team hopes to achieve a premier victory under Vrba's coaching.
In the last three preparatory matches, there were two draws, and it lost one game.
The qualification match with the Netherlands will start at 8:45 p.m. on 9 September.
Pešice to represent the Netherlands in Italy
Vrba is glad that unlike during previous matches he has more time for training.
"It's an advantage, when you have players for eight days and you can practice certain things with them, which we didn't have as much time for before.
Now we will be able to focus only on preparing as best as possible for the Netherlands," Vrba explained.
Before the game in Prague, the Dutch team will play in Italy on Thursday, and the match will be watched personally by temporary team coach Josef Pešice.
He will give us information from the match as it becomes available.
But it won't be only about him. We will also have the game filmed, and we will analyze it.
There is a new trainer coming to the Netherlands, so we will see what kinds of changes there will be," Vrba said, referring to the bronze medalists from the recent World Championship.
Pre-election propaganda?
A League in Jihlava carries its name under a political movement.
Minor-league soccer is played in Vysočiny's regional capital by approximately 1,600 amateur athletes.
And their biggest competition is newly called the Together for Jihlava League.
The name is that of a political movement that is taking part in the October municipal elections.
Its tenth candidate is the head of the minor-league soccer team in Jihlava, Jan Mráka.
"A plenary session was held, at which no one had a problem with the idea," Mráka explained.
The situation surrounding the first minor-league soccer team has already been addressed by lawyers for the Jihlava City Hall, and they have recommended changing the system of dividing grants.
Last year, around CZK 1 million was allocated for minor-league soccer by the city, according to its website.
This year too, it will receive hundreds of thousands.
According to the expressed legal opinion, the approach by the minor-league soccer team neither conflicts with the law nor with the City Hall's directives.
"However, the situation gives the relevant authority a reason to change the rules for allocation of grants and subsidies," explained City Hall spokesman Radek Tulis.
Drawing grants from the city and at the same time expressing support for a single political party in the elections as the minor-league soccer team is probably not acceptable.
No similar request has yet been addressed to major-league soccer in Vysočiny by politicians.
Suppose, for example, that a Social Democratic Party regional championship, a Civic Democratic Party division or a Christian Democratic Union-Czechoslovak People's Party 1.
A category or similar competitive events were created.
I would not be in favor of it.
Instead, I would be glad if sponsors from a number of companies contacted us," said Regional Soccer Association Chairman Miroslav Vrzáček.
The head of minor-league soccer will not allow other parties or movements into the league's name.
According to minor-league soccer players, this sport in Jihlava deserves its own site with six fields, locker rooms and restrooms.
"For example, the Na Stoupách field is not ours, we are renting it," pointed out Ondřej Lapeš from Starlet Jihlava.
Český mlýn would probably be the best location.
However, I believe that in that location a ridiculous site for skateboarders is going to be built there, and Jihlava already has about 50 of them," Mráka said.
Jihlava Mayor Jaroslav Vymazal (Civic Democratic Party) has reacted by noting that the minor-league soccer team uses a field with artificial turf on Rošického a Na Stoupách Streets, which are owned by the city.
"We want to build a field that will have maximum use.
We are planning modernization or development of sports stadiums near schools, which will be accessible during afternoon hours.
I think major progress has been made in recent years for minor-league soccer," Vymazal added.
According to Jan Mráka, no other political parties will appear in the names of leagues.
"We have limits.
If anyone from one field enters into a partnership with us, we no longer admit another one," he explained.
"A political movement in the name of a league is something that I consider at least unfortunate," said Karel Voldán, a member of the City Council's commission for sports.
"But let players decide whether Mr. Mráka is using Jihlava's minor-league soccer association and grants from the city for political purposes or not," he added.
Deutsche Bahn's trains will not run this evening.
The engineers want higher wages.
In a press statement, GDL described the protest as a warning strike, for which it intentionally chose a time outside of the peak period.
By selecting its time for the strike, GDL took into consideration the many people who did not return from their weekend away until during the next work day.
"We also are thinking of people who leave for work during the day," the union said in a press statement on Monday morning regarding the announcement of the strike.
"Our first strike is expected mainly to affect freight transport and will affect passengers less," GDL added.
DB has not yet released an official public reaction to the announced strike.
It is not clear either how the protest will affect international rail connections, including those with the Czech Republic.
The unions are demanding 5% wage increases for engineers and shortening of their work period by two hours per week.
Engineers' average wages currently range between 36,000 and 46,000 euros (CZK 998,0000 to 1.27 million) annually, depending on the number of years worked.
DB engineers work 39 hours per week.
DB is refusing to allow wages to increase while still shortening the work period.
The company points out that wage increases for engineers must develop in the same way as for other railway staff, whose work week DB does not intend to reduce.
There was a risk that Krest's car would catch fire.
Therefore, he finished at the Barum Rally.
What exactly happened?
It was a material defect.
The car was brand new, so it didn't occur to me that something like that could happen.
Couldn't the exhaust pipe be repaired temporarily to enable the car to be driven at a slower pace to a service center, where mechanics would replace it?
If we had headed right there, then yes.
But another two special stages awaited us, so it was impossible.
There's a high temperature in it and there was a great risk that the car could catch on fire.
I cannot allow that to happen.
At full pace, you managed five speed tests.
What was your impression from them?
It was very good.
I felt like when I was younger.
We were fast, but I didn't go through with it.
Everything was caused by the fact that we worked on the car for more than half a year to get it to a certain level.
The race showed that we managed it.
Did you get so into it that you couldn't really imagine victory?
I prepared myself and the car so that we would really be in reach of victory.
Our work didn't result in nothing.
On the other hand, we didn't get the outcome that we had expected.
But that's the Barum Rally.
Technology unfortunately said no.
You were not the only one from the top who got out of the race for first place early.
Foreign favorites such as Breen, Abbring and Lappi did too.
Were you surprised that so many favorites withdrew?
Yes.
Mainly for spectators, it was a pity, because it caused the race to end early.
Jaromír Tarabus, for you are preparing a car, was also at the top for a long time.
But he paid the price of veering from the route and suffered a loss of nearly two minutes.
How satisfied were you with his performance?
It's a pity, because he could have repeated the winners' levels.
After all, he drove the first two times.
Even Mira confirmed to me that we had prepared the car well.
He went very fast.
Exactly a year ago, you announced the end of your career, but you still showed up at the start of the Barum Rally.
Could your good feeling from this event make you a regular participant in rally races?
Certainly not at this time.
Last year, I said that the Barum would be my last race, and I still didn't keep the promise.
I decided to race again.
It was my nineteenth start here, and if there's a chance in a year from now, then I will take it.
But I'm not considering anything after that.
A lot of people came to the track just because of you.
Did it make you happy??
To a certain extent, we started because of them.
A lot of people, people who I know and don't know, constantly asked if I would race.
I wanted to make them happy.
What awaits you after the Barum?
The team will press on.
Next week we are going to Vyškova, where Robert Adolf will race.
I hope he hasn't damaged the car very much here.
Furthermore, for this race sometimes he wants to borrow the Fabia from Honza Sýkora.
With Mira, we will participate in European double races in Switzerland and Corsica.
For that, we will have to prepare some things for next year.
Can you already indicate anything?
No, nothing has been decided.
When the Corsica rally belonged to the World Championship, you achieved fifth place, you maximum in the series.
Aren't you in the mood to try that track again?
No, I'm not.
A verbal agreement with an employer can be a problem.
Unfortunately, you have not yet had your physician issue a confirmation of your work disability, which serves as evidence for an organization that for health reasons you cannot carry out your work duties.
Moreover, you did not immediately notify your employer of the absence.
Subsequently, although you reached an agreement that the particular days would be recorded as vacation, the agreement was made only verbally.
Although the Labor Office does not require an employee to have the employer's permission to take leave confirmed in writing, in practice this approach has proven effective.
If there is only a verbal agreement, then you won't have a confirmation of it.
Later, the supposed consent with drawing leave, like in your case, can be denied, and your absence from work can be evaluated as a long-term inexcusable absence and a reason for immediate termination of employment under Section 53 of the Labor Code.
Then if there is a court dispute about the agreement with the employer, you will lack provable evidence.
However, employment with you has not been canceled pursuant to Section 53, you only have the particular days specified in your records as an inexcusable absence.
An inexcusable absence in your records will not have the same consequences as Section 53 (such as the inability to collect unemployment benefits), even though it hinders your ability to seek new employment.
When recommend that you visit the particular doctor again and have the doctor issue written confirmation that an injury actually occurred, which made you unable to work (not a "sickness confirmation", but only a document from the physician).
When looking for new employment, you can submit the specified document and explain the situation.
It is a good idea not to underestimate either issuance of a physician's written confirmation of work disability or prompt notification of an employer or requesting written permission for drawing leave.
You will avoid potential complications.
Prague chooses new taxi stand firm, it will earn 12.3 million
The City of Prague has completed a tender for a new manager of its taxi stands.
For 103 taxi parking locations, it will earn approximately CZK 12.3 million per year.
Until recently, it had been collecting CZK 150,000 for the same taxi stands.
The information was provided by City Council member Lukáš Manhart (TOP 09).
The city previously used drawings to select management companies.
The winner then got to manage the locations for a flat fee of CZK 1,000 per year.
However, the rules have changed.
The amount of the offer is currently decisive.
"A year since the termination of the original contract and the start of the tender, it became apparent that the new system of leasing would be much more beneficial for Prague and entirely fair," the council member said.
The most expensive spot is on Na Perštýně Street.
The highest price has been offered by those interested in taxi stands on Na Perštýně Street.
They will pay CZK 2.1 million per year.
The new administrators paid approximately CZK 1.5 million for locations such as in front of the Municipal House and on Wenceslas Square.
The new rules for leasing taxi stands were adopted by council members in the autumn of 2012, and last summer they terminated the original lease agreements.
The tender was held in four rounds, and the new administrator will get 29 taxi stands.
We had to clean the well for the second time this year already.
Each time, we completely emptied it, which practically created a second pond around the cottage.
Then we poured Savo into it.
What an incredible stench!
Our well in the basement always had plenty of fragrant water.
And it was not done professionally in who knows what way, but grandpa dug it one his own.
A long time ago.
It was just three rings and generally peculiar, just like everything else at the cottage, but as I say.
The water was great.
Until this year.
When we began the season, of course we pumped the water out.
It deserved to be pumped out, since it had been sitting for several months.
But even afterwards it seemed that the water somehow didn't smell good.
It occurred to us that something might have fallen in.
At the place where the pump went through, with a bit of bad luck it was possible, as a slab there was not entirely secluded, and the opening was sealed with a piece of brick.
Our inspection confirmed that the brick had moved.
Otherwise, nothing was visible in the water, and we shined all the way to the bottom.
So we emptied and cleaned it again.
Of course, we improved the improvised sealing around the pump pipe.
However, in the basement we noticed some strange things.
On the ground there was a package with some small cubes.
Or at least that's how they looked.
And there were more a little further away.
Now it looked like a slimy mouse.
By the ceiling, in locations where there were through vents, grandpa's discovery was found: pieces of fish!
And heavily eaten!
Our cellar is also strange.
Someone could say that grandpa in short dug under the cottage.
And that would not be far from the truth.
The walls and the floor are only compacted sand, and only the ceiling is wooden.
Mainly boats are placed there.
And bicycles.
And beach chairs.
The gate with wide gaps has usually been open, and someone always has been able to get through it.
By the ceiling there are already several of the mentioned vents.
Without a net, so birds regularly fly in and build their nests there.
It's needless to mention mice.
Grandpa wanted to ventilate, but it wasn't going to happen.
Now of course, even air did not help.
The entire basement stank.
So we cleaned the entire basement.
That fish on the beam was especially nutritious!
We also threw away items that were nearby: boards, a heraclithic slab and more.
Our cottage welcomed passersby from afar with a disinfectant odor.
We thought about who could have brought those awful things in.
The nearest cat lives two kilometers way in a village.
It would have had a hard time coming to our cottage for a snack.
Grandpa thought it might have been one neighbor, who is not entirely in good condition.
He wondered whether it was Franta and if he had pushed the disgusting things through a vent.
It's been here practically all year, what stupid ideas he has.
We decided to monitor and regularly check the basement and the well.
After a few days, everything was fine.
We began using the water again, so far only for washing and cleaning, until the tests were ready to let us know that it was fine again.
Hauling water from a well in the forest is not something I would like to do for long.
Once we heard the frightening bark of our female dog.
Mom peered from the balcony and saw a long thick black hose in the grass next to the veranda.
Réza jumped over it and howled like crazy.
Mom scolded her, because she thought that Réza had dug up the waste hose from the sink.
But suddenly the hose was partially rolled up into a ball and partially straightened.
Then a hiss came from the balcony.
Réza became hysterical.
We ran down.
A grass snake, which was more than a meter long and as thick as a whip was planning to swallow a large toad, and Réza stopped it from doing so.
It was not clear whether she wanted to save the toad or if she herself wanted to eat it, but that's not what was important.
When the grass snake saw that it was outnumbered by our entire family, it must have figured we wanted to eat it, since we were so hungry, and it then elegantly crept into the vent leading to the basement.
We ran after it.
It jumped out of the well like lightning.
Then we noticed that there was another stinking package on the board.
From the smell, it must have been a fish.
It was not there the day before yesterday!
Our new reinforcement around the pump was a little crooked.
And we locked the basement even during the day.
Is it possible that...
We rushed outside, and each of us approached one vent.
We didn't wait long.
Something was stirring in the well.
First a small flat head with yellow marigolds on its neck appeared.
Then the entire grass snake leaped from the well.
It moved around the pump and started going inside.
Fired worker gets revenge by buying company laptops and selling them
A disgruntled employee bought computers for the company where he worked and then sold them after being fired.
He managed to spend the money he made before the police arrested him.
Over a short period in twelve instances the man bought a total of 16 computers for more than CZK 200,000.
"After receiving the laptops, he took them to Olomouc, where he sold them to pawn shops," šumperské Police Commissioner Rostislav Brückner said.
The employee was motivated by a desire to get revenge for being fired and to make money.
"During questioning he told us that he had used the money for loan repayments," Brückner said.
The police also discovered that the con-artist was a pathological gambler who had repeatedly received psychiatric treatment.
Therefore, the money could have ended up in game machines or video lottery terminals.
"It's a fact that we did not find any money on him," the commissioner said.
The con-artist had already once been convicted of theft, and now he faces a prison sentence of one to five years.
The police have not yet said whether the pawn shops that bought the laptops at below their value and then sold them will also face charges.
"It's true that they accepted completely new goods, which is at least suspicious," the commissioner said.
None of the pawn shop owners have yet been charged.
Come a little closer you can manage it, or how I enjoyed We Run Prague
This year the organizers have prepared a few changes.
The biggest is the change of route, which has moved the finish to the river bank, instead of going back to the Yellow Spa.
I have looked forward to the race together with the rest of the Rungo.cz team, but I tried to enjoy it a little from the other side.
Everyone of us on the team decided to say hello to your readers in person at a stand, where we took photos and filmed videos.
In order to perfect view from the other side, I accepted the role of personal guide.
Together with my friend Káťou, we humbly lined up at the end of the corridor for 60 to 70 minutes just before the start.
We said hello to our friends, who were walking around us to the sector for faster runners.
There was not much time left.
A couple of jumps to warm up, switching on sport testers, countdown and start!
Cries of jubilation, but instead of the quick start it was followed by rushing to the starting line.
After five minutes, we reach the gate, switch on our meters and run with a pace for the tenth hour.
We become interwoven with the yellow stretch of runners, who like Káťou are running their first race.
So far everyone looks refreshed, and the gradually setting sun on the horizon provides a view of Vyšehrad that nearly takes everyone's breath away.
The pulsing mass running along the river bank makes it look like all of Prague is running.
On the bank between Vyšehrad and the National Theater, as usual, it becomes apparent who has how much strength.
The slight hill on Palackého Square forces many runners to slow down or switch to walking.
Just before entering Divadelní Street, I see the police accompaniment, and behind them Vítek Pavlišta, sprinting towards finish at an incredible pace.
I hear the other runners catching their breath.
I move to the edge of the route and cheer him on, and he begins to high-five me, but just before that my leg bends, and our hands slightly miss each other.
The run down Divadelní Street presents a chance for a brief rest and catching of breath.
It is necessary, because there are places ahead of us where the views are breathtaking.
Turning onto the Mánesově Bridge presents a view of Prague in its full beauty with the setting sun.
I'm not breathing, and my legs are almost carrying me themselves.
After the first refreshment, the moment of truth comes.
While running along the roadway, Káťou trips on the curb and falls forward.
I look to see whether or not she needs help, and I say a series of encouraging words, so that she won't have time to think about the pain.
She gets up, and we continue along Kozí Lane, which is one of the narrowest parts of the route, and in this stage in the race there is no longer such a rush, but it is still necessary to pay close attention to surroundings.
I still don't realize that the term "narrowest place" will take on its true meaning later.
After the Powder Tower, we are frantically cheered on by tourists and other runners' friends.
I try to high-five with everyone who puts out his hand, and I advise Káťou to do the same, because ten high-fives with fans is like half an energy bar.
It really works, and we speed up again, and although we have fallen quite far behind, the race to catch up has just begun.
We overtake dozens of runners, and when I notice someone especially tired, I try to encourage him with a few words: "Come on, just a little farther, you can do it!"
After the last refreshment break, no one runs ahead of us any more, and we speed up.
So far we have run for an hour and fifteen minutes, and we are adding minutes, so there is nothing to wait for.
The three kilometers to the finish are going to hurt, but it is really necessary to make it.
The sun has almost set already, and the ending day symbolically slowly ends the race.
The last run to the bridge, a turn and then just a straight route to the finish.
The pace at which we are running amazes me, and I wonder where comes from.
"Come on, we're going under hour thirteen, let's do it!" I call out.
We try it, we sprint forward, and there is the finish line.
Hour thirteen and six seconds.
Well, what can you do?
The trainer has set a limit of hour twenty.
So seven minutes under the plan.
That's a super outcome.
Just past the finish line, Káťou's legs give way, and I help her to the railing, where she can rest for a while.
She is visibly exhausted, but also visibly happy about her good performance.
After a while, I gradually take her out from the space of the finish line.
The euphoria prevents us from noticing the mad dash to the lockers.
Here, it is obvious that Kozí Lane was not the narrowest place.
That place is here, beyond the finish at the river bank, which is being swarmed by almost 10,000 runners squeezed together.
If anyone doesn't like crowds, then this is not the place for them.
After a while, I too lose my mind and wonder if those beautiful views and the more interesting route than in previous years were worth experiencing what's happening now.
From my own experience, I know that hosting an event is nothing to laugh at.
When combined with 10,000 people, a rich accompanying program and closure of the entire center of Prague to all traffic, it's a huge challenge.
This year's change of route showed the runners many interesting places, which also brought a few really unpleasant surprises.
The excellent atmosphere pumped out of the Yellow Spa found a place among runners and in the race itself.
The organizers around the route and random spectators intensified it at each meter of the route.
During the run through the historic city center, unfortunately there are obstacles that cannot be eliminated, but I don't consider putting the finish to the huge race in a location where one side is bordered by a wall and the other by a river to be the best solution.
If I were to say that the race ended when the runners ran to the finish, then I would evaluate it as very successful.
Beyond the route, I was a little afraid for the health of the participants, but in the end everything turned out well.
Please write to us in the discussion forum whether you liked the route and what your thoughts are about the situation with the finish point.
Why can the universe have multiple dimensions and we can't see them?
Physicists don't often write best sellers, but Brian Green from Columbia University managed to hit the bull's eye in 1999.
His book, "The Elegant Universe", has become for members of the general public the easiest way to delve into issues being addressed today by several theoretical physicists, an effort to unite two excellently functioning, but mutually incompatible, discoveries of the 20th century, quantum theory and the theory of general relativity.
One of the causes of the success of "The Elegant Universe" is undoubtedly that when searching for united physical theories, it's not a boring story.
Physicists have addressed the basic problem between two key theories (after all, at this moment our universe is de facto divided into two worlds with different laws) and are resolving it so well that it's worth it even to explain it to ordinary people.
Greene even coped so well with the difficult material, that he can't be criticized for how much interesting information he didn't include in his book.
Furthermore, he has mostly made up for his "mistake" in another two books: "The Structure of the Universe" and "The Hidden Reality".
The author obviously would not even object if his book became obsolete more quickly, but it's a fact that even after 15 years "The Elegant Universe" continues to provide almost everything important that an informed layman with an ambition to understand the world should know about this important part of theoretical physics.
It is relatively likely that in the years to come the situation in this area will be somewhat more lively (for example, since the LHC accelerator will finally run on "full gas"), and so this is a good opportunity to enter the world of modern physics through doors opened up by Greene without force.
How many dimensions could our universe have?
The idea that our universe may have more than three spatial dimensions certainly could seem far-fetched, strange or mystical.
Nonetheless, it is specific and entirely acceptable.
In order for us to understand it, let's shift our vision for a moment from the universe as a whole to something more down to earth, specifically a long and thin basic garden hose.
Imagine stretching a 100-meter garden hose from one side of a canyon to another and monitoring the entire scenery from a distance of half a kilometer away (like in the image on the following page).
From such a distance, you can easily recognize a long hose stretched in a horizontal direction, but if you happen to suffer from perspicacity, then you will have difficulty figuring out the thickness of the hose.
Because of your long distance from the hose, you would think that an ant forced to live on the hose has only one dimension in which it can walk: a left-right dimension along the hose.
When someone asks you where the ant is at a particular moment, you can respond to him with only one detail: the ant's distance from the left (or right) end of the hose.
All that we want to say here is that from a half-kilometer distance a long piece of hose looks like a one-dimensional object.
In the real world, the hose has thickness.
If we enlarge everything, we will suddenly see a second dimension, in the shape of a ring wrapping around the hose.
In such an enlarged view, it is obvious that the ant in reality could move in two independent dimensions: in the already well known left-right dimensions along the length of the hose, but also in "a clockwise or counterclockwise direction," meaning around the circular cross-section of the hose.
You will start to understand that in order to determine the position of the small ant, you have to enter two numbers: how far it is from the end of the hose and where it is on the ring wrapping around the hose.
This reflects the fact that the surface of the hose is two-dimensional. (Note: Experts point out that this chapter focuses purely on the rupture theory of strings.
The non-rupturing aspects are addressed in chapters 12 and 13.)
The surface of the hose is two-dimensional: one long parallel dimension is illustrated by a direct arrow, a dimension in the direction of the perimeter, indicated by a circular arrow, is short and coiled.
Nonetheless, there is a clear difference between these two dimensions.
The dimension along the hose is long and easily visible.
The dimension wrapping the perimeter of the hose is short, coiled and harder to recognize.
In order for us to realize the existence of the circular dimension, we had to examine a hose with much better characteristics.
The mentioned example illustrates the important property of spatial dimensions.
That it is divided into two groups.
They can be either large, extensive and therefore not directly obvious, or they can be small, coiled and much harder to observe.
Of course, in the specified case we did not exactly re-rub in order to uncover the coiled dimension wrapping the thickness of the hose.
It was enough to pick up a telescope for help.
But if the hose were thinner, like a piece of hair or a capillary, we could uncover the coiled dimension only with great effort.
In 1919, Kaluza sent Einstein his article, in which he toiled with a huge thought, that the spatial geometry of the universe could have more than three of the dimensions that we know.
Kaluza explained his radical claim by pointing out that an additional dimension provides an elegant and convincing framework, in which Einstein's general relativity and Maxwell's electromagnetic theory could be combined into one unified concept.
This immediately gives rise the question of how this discovery by Kaluza goes together with the obvious fact that we see three dimensions of space.
The answer that Kaluza predicted quietly between the lines, and which was clearly expressed and clarified by Swedish mathematician Oskar Klein in 1926, rests and falls with the claim that the spatial geometry of our universe could have both large and coiled dimensions.
That means that just like the dimension in the direction of the length of the hose, our universe too has a large, extensive and easily visible set of three dimensions, the existence of which we realize at every moment.
But analogically to the circumference of a garden hose, the universe too can have additional dimensions, firmly coiled into space with it not obvious that until now they have remained hidden even from our most perfect experimental apparatuses.
In order to get a clearer idea of the basis of Kaluza's noteworthy proposal, let's continue focusing on that hose for a while.
Imagine that on the circumference of the hose we draw a relatively thick row of rings in black color.
From a distance, the hose still appears as a thin one-dimensional line.
Now with a telescope, thanks to drawing, we can uncover a coiled dimension even more easily, as shown in figure 2.
We can clearly see that the surface of the hose is two-dimensional, with one dimension that is large and almost unlimited, and with another short one and a ring.
Kaluza and Klein came up with the idea that our universe has a similar structure, but besides one small circular dimension it has three large spatial dimensions, meaning together four spatial dimensions.
It is difficult to draw an object with too many dimensions.
In order to help our imagination a little, we should notice the illustration in figure 3; it shows two large dimensions and one small circular dimension.
In the image we can enlarge the view of the geometry of the space in a way similar to how we enlarged the surface of the hose.
Each of the following levels represents a major enlargement of the geometry of the space from the previous level.
Our universe can have additional dimensions (we see them in the fourth level of enlargement), if they are coiled into a sufficiently small space; this is how we explain that we have not observed them directly so far.
The grid illustrates the well known "large" dimension, while the ring illustrates the new, small and coiled dimension.
Just like loops of thread in a thick carpet, these rings too exist in every place with usual dimensions, but for illustration we have sketched them only in interwoven patterns in a grid.
The background of figure 4 illustrates the well known structure of space - the ordinary world around us - in typical measuring units, such as meters, illustrated with the side of a small square in a grid.
On each subsequent image, we will focus on the small area of the previous image; we will enlarge it so that it becomes visible.
From the beginning, nothing special happens, as we can see in several of the first levels of enlargement.
But when we move further along our path to discover the microscopic properties of the geometry of space - to the fourth level of enlargement in figure 3 - then we will suddenly encounter a new dimension coiled in a ring shape, similar to loops of thread in a thick piece woven piece of carpet.
Kaluza and Klein came up with the idea that an additional circular dimension exists in every place in the direction of large dimensions similar to that of circumference of a hose along each point of its length.
For illustrative purposes, we have drawn the circular dimension only in certain regularly placed points.
Figure 4 summarizes Kaluza's and Klein's idea about the microscopic structure of geometry of space.
The similarity to the hose is obvious, but we can even notice some important differences.
First, the universe has three large spatial dimensions far sprawling from each other (of which we have drawn only two), and only hose has a large dimension.
An even more important difference is that now we are talking about spatial geometry of the universe itself, not about any object within the universe, such as our hose.
But the basic idea is the same.
If the additional circularly coiled dimension is extremely miniature, it can be recognized, just like the round circumference of the host, much more difficultly than observing obvious, large and extensive dimensions.
If the size of an additional dimension is sufficiently small, uncovering it will in fact be beyond the capabilities of our most modern enlargement tools.
However, the most important thing is that the additional dimension is not a mere round protuberance inside regular dimensions, as the two-dimensional illustration erroneously indicates.
The circular dimension is a new dimension, which exists in every point of three regular extensive dimensions.
It is a dimension that is independent of the remaining three dimensions, just as the top-bottom, left-right and front-back dimensions are mutually independent (and diagonal).
A small enough ant could move in all four dimensions, and in order to determine its position we would need four pieces of information, besides the three usual details also the position in the circular dimension; if we figure in time as well, then there are five details, but in any case it there is one more than we would normally expect.
Did this interest you?
You can purchase the book "The Elegant Universe" by Brian Greene at knihy.idnes.cz.
The price of the e-book version is CZK 149.
Much to our surprise, we are finding out that although we are aware of the existence of only three dimensions of space, Kaluza's and Klein's considerations show that the existence of additional coiled dimensions cannot be ruled out, if they are small enough.
The universe could even have more dimensions than we can see with the naked eye.
How small should they be?
The most modern technical equipment can recognize the structure of a billionth of a billionth of a meter.
We rarely can observe smaller coiled dimensions.
In 1926, Klein combined Kaluza's original idea with a few ideas from quantum mechanics, a subject which was becoming known at the time.
His calculations indicated that an additional circular dimension could have the size of approximately one Planck length, a size far beyond the recognition capabilities of today's machines.
Since then, the physicists have referred to the possibility of additional small spatial dimensions as the Kaluza-Klein Theory.
Wohnout member Honza Homola gives advice about how to practice on an electric guitar: Part 5
The overall basis of the "12" is the 12-tactic harmonic form, which you can repeat randomly.
Whoever delves into musical theory will find its principle explained in detail here.
Jan Homola, or Honza Homolka Tobolka (1976)
This trained puppeteer and string puppet master, whose Facebook profile can be viewed here, has been living as a graphic artist since graduating from high school twelve years ago.
He is a guitarist in the band Wohnout, which it is reportedly impossible to quit.
By becoming a guitarist, he has followed in his father's footsteps, just like is brother Matěj, the leader of Wohnout.
You can begin with training on one string.
"They rhythmic model is up to you, and you can think up anything and then simply apply it to the harmonic model of the twelve," advises Honza.
When you add another string, you can then change the figure again.
It's enough just to listen to and what Honza, what can be thought up with the twelve-member harmony on two strings and how nice it is beginning to sound.
If you take the third string, you can already flirt with the melody of a certain song.
And when you finally add the fourth, be attentive to changes in tuning, Honza explains in the video.
Then Honza returns to the pentatonic, and you can try to put it together with the twelve-member group.
So practice it diligently.
You can read about how best to do so in the interview with Jan Homola during the first lesson of his electric-guitar-playing school.
Another goal without waiting?
It's not anything to celebrate a lot about, admits Hradec player Dvořák.
We will accept a point, and we are happy for it.
During the first half, the other home team, had more chances," recalls the offensive player, who this time scored from a penalty kick.
Weren't you nervous when playing it, since, after all there was a lot of booing?
I didn't really notice it much, even though at the other goal, there the hometown fans site, it was probably worse.
After half an hour you made up for the penalty, but you also got the goal out of the penalty in just under four minutes.
What happened?
We slept through the beginning, we were passive, and this led to a corner and then a penalty.
After that, you rose, and during the first half you were still a better team that had more chances.
Why did that change after the break?
It's difficult to say.
I agree that after achieving the goal, we played well until the break.
In the cabin, we said we wanted to sustain the pace of the game after it, but we did not achieve that.
To be honest, I can't even explain why.
It's probably also true that the home team players said something to each other about their game during the break, and they probably were not satisfied with it.
You first scored on your rival's field, while at home you haven't yet gotten even one goal.
Why such a difference?
I wouldn't say that it's such a difference, but it depends on how we battle.
We began well in Brno, but it went downhill for us from then, and Plzeň is an entirely different category.
For four games you waited for a goal, but were you afraid that it could end up the same after the last game?
Well, I don't think so, but we are understandably happy that since the last game we have not had to listen to talk about waiting for a goal.
Now we have added another without waiting, but there are still only three in six games, which is not yet much to celebrate about.
Iceland - lava flows from a crater kilometers away.
Lava bubbling to the surface in the Holuhraun region, near the Vatnajökull glacier, is flowing through an underground tunnel from a crater kilometers away.
It is located beneath a glacier, like part of the mentioned underground lava tunnel.
This situation is now unsettling scientists the most.
However, so far the situation remains unchanged.
Since yesterday morning (August 31
2014) about the same amount of lava has been erupting from the top of the volcano.
However, despite original estimates, its amount is lower than 1,000 m3, but "only" 300-400 m3.
Compared to the previous eruption from August 29
2014, it is 50x greater.
However, scientists are worried that the lava tunnel could open up in places where it is below ice.
If that happened, furthermore with intensity similar to that of the current eruption, it would result in major flooding, both at the Jökulsá á Fjöllum River and at other rivers.
In the surroundings of the eruption, there is a strong smell of sulfur, and gases and steam are rising from the top.
This certainly is not an eruption suitable for tourism, as was the case with the eruption at Fimmvörðuháls in 2010.
"This one is much larger, and there are also a lot more gases," says volcano expert Ármann Höskuldsson.
However, since yesterday the weather has greatly improved, and in the morning it was almost calm in the area.
The traces of the sandstorm have been washed away by rain.
The scientists can continue in their work.
Orange level (the second highest) applies for aviation for Bárðarbungu and yellow (third) for Askju.
The skies above Cheb belonged to courageous Lady Peggy.
She went through with her wings.
Aviation day in Cheb.
Aviation acrobat Peggy Walentin has performed on a Boeing Stearman PT-17, and during the flight she climbed out of the cockpit and made her way to the rack on the top wing of the biplane as well as between the wings.
There she is only at the mercy of the strength of her muscles.
Aviation Day in Cheb was held this year for the fifth in a row, and the organizers again managed to prepare several interesting air performances.
The premiere at the event at the oldest Czech airport was not only "the walk on wings" by German aviation acrobat Peggy Walentin, but also featured the legendary P-51 D Mustang fighter plane and the Beechcraft 18 aircraft.
It drew attention to itself with its bright coating.
The acrobatic practice known as Wingwalking originates from the United States.
After the First World War, many former war pilots attempted it.
However, because of the large number of fatal injuries, it was banned.
Today it is slowly returning to the agenda of air show.
"After the start, Peggy climbs out of the cockpit and onto the top wing.
There she demonstrates different exercises.
Near the end of the performance, she moves to the space between the aircraft's wings, where her show continues," explained Luděk Matějíček from the Cheb Ultralight Club, the organizer of Aviation Day.
Walentin's husband Friedrich is the pilot of the Boeing Stearman 75 E.
If Peggy's performance was the main attraction of the program, then the demonstration of the Mustang fighter plane was the cherry on the cake.
The legendary fighter plane was accompanied by Grippens from the Czech Air Force (in numbers).
This was the first time aviation fans have been able to see such a joint performance in the Czech Republic.
Pilot Miroslav Sázavský then performed breathtaking acrobatics for everyone with a plane from 1945.
The plane was manufactured during the war, it was probably never used.
It was assigned to the army reserves.
Since 1963 it has served in the civil sphere.
And also as a racing plane.
Today it has its home hangar at the airport in Mnichově Hradišti.
In the same location there is another pearl of the Cheb Aviation Day, the two-engine Beechcraft C45H Expeditor.
The enormous aircraft cannot be overlooked at the airport.
Its polished aluminum coating shines a long distance.
The Max Holste MH 1521M Broussard plane in the colors of the French Air Force has also received admiration.
The small airliner got behind the renounced Turbolet, and from Hof, Germany, it brought home part of the German delegation at the air show.
Cheb's neighbors from the German side of the border gave performances including some with reconstructed Jak 18T aircraft and three-member formations using Bücker Jungmann biplanes.
Lucie Borhyová: A dramatic return to the camera!
Lucie Borhyová has exchanged parental responsibilities for work at least for this evening.
Stress and nervousness are two things the blonde news anchor evidently does not know at all.
Anchoring television news has been going as well for her as if she had not even taken a break from it for two months at all!
It's been only two weeks since the blonde finished the six weeks during which women experience the most stress after childbirth.
However, Lucie will not yet regularly appear on TV Nova's main news broadcasts.
According to Blesk.cz, she is not expected to make a regular return to work until a month from now.
After all, her daughter Linda now needs her more than television viewers.
Lucie Borhyová has returned to the TV screen, and it was a bull's eye.
Exhibition in Prague in a year?
The arena would be sold out, according to Jágr's planned going away party.
"It would be noble if something like this were done during the World Championship.
But it will depend on what position the association takes," he said in Jihlava following the Golden Match exhibition, during which the impressive team from the Nagano Olympics met again.
This included players who participated in the golden hat trick.
The players would be in the mood, wouldn't they?
Certainly.
In short, it would be good to have a parting celebration with the golden generation during the championship.
I believe that during the tournament we can find one or two days when everyone will be completely free and a location where everyone could meet for such a match.
I'll tell Guma (Jiřímu Šlégrovi) or Béďovi Ščerbanovi (the organizer of the Jihlava match), would could take responsibility for it...
The arena would be sold out.
But what if you're going to participate in the New Jersey play-off?
Then I'll fly in...
But do you not want to play on the team?
Or has the Jihlava match somehow changed your mind?
The team and exhibition matches are two different things, and performance is decisive in the team.
The only thing is that people would like to see me there, but performance is decisive, especially for the World Championship.
It should be participated in by players who have what it takes, not because they have a good reputation.
My decision has not changed at all.
How did you enjoy the Nagano reunion?
Just meeting with the players was great.
Each person recalled events and had a lot of fun.
It was a great experience both for fans and for us hockey players.
Of course, the most important part was honoring Ivan Hlinka.
And it's good to remind everyone of the history of our hockey, since one generation is leaving who really cared about it.
Slavomír Lener, Vladimír Růžička and Petr Čechmánek on the bench.
Do you yourself still remember your first team match?
Such things are impossible to forget.
It was against the Calgary Flames, and there were three young people, Robert Holík, Robert Reichel and I, and we joined in one group of three.
It was the first team start for everyone.
But it would be inaccurate to say that we dominated in any way.
Dominik Hašek played the goal position in Jihlava after a long period.
What did you say about his performance?
Hašan never surprises me on the ice.
I wanted to give it back to him with criticism, but I can't. (Hašek criticized Jágra for the reasons why he decided to quit the team.) He played the goal position excellently.
Hnilička performed great too.
This was even though he trained with me at night once, and he had shortcomings.
Now he played the goal position fantastically.
First the USA, then the Netherlands; soccer qualification begins
Prominent guests will arrive at the NH Hotel in Smíchovský on late Monday morning.
People will be able to view celebrities including Petr Čech from Chelsea, team coach Pavel Vrba and others.
And that figure in the black jersey is Tomáš Rosický!
Arsenal's reserve player and team captain arrived at the gathering at around 11:30 a.m. and was one of the last to do so.
"We can await a nice game against the Netherlands.
Who would not look forward to it?" he said when he appeared before reporters in his team uniform.
Czech team's program
Monday, September 1: meeting start, first training
Tuesday, September 2: Open training for fans (6:30 p.m., Letná) Autograph signing (8:00 p.m.)
Wednesday, September 3: Czech Republic - USA (8:15 p.m., Letná)
Tuesday, September 9: Czech Republic - Netherlands (8:45 p.m., Letná), end of meeting
Rosický and his associates can be supported by fans already before the Wednesday game against the USA (8:15 p.m.).
The team has opened Tuesday training for them, which will start at Letná at 6:30 p.m.
It will be followed by autograph signing, at which neither Rosický nor Čech will be missing.
Otherwise, of course, this meeting of the national team will be calmer.
This has been praised by coach Vrba, who in the spring complained about the number of community events.
We will finally be able to devote our attention to what we want to devote it to.
Now we will focus on the Netherlands.
There is an advantage when you have players together for eight days.
We will have time to practice things that so far we have not had enough time for," said Vrba, who has headed the national team since January.
When entering the new qualification cycle, the Czech soccer team will be accompanied by a Musketeer image.
The team under Vrba's leadership has three games behind it, all of them preparatory matches.
It tied with Norway and Finland 2:2 and lost to Austria 1:2.
However, those results were not important any more.
Only now.
With the match with the Netherlands, the qualification is beginning for advancement to the 2016 European Championship.
Of course, the Czech men's team would be aided if it managed the rehearsal game against the USA.
"The first year was for us to get to know each other.
Now results are important.
We have to think about how we can be successful," said Vrba.
The only player in the 23-member nomination who has health problems is David Lafata.
He suffers from a fever.
If he doesn't manage to recover by the Wednesday game against the USA, coach Vrba could call up one more offensive player.
What you missed: Tusk to head Europe, Putin's Novorossiya and Lafata's scissors
Will a new state emerge in Ukraine?
Putin calls for negotiations about Novorossiya
Russian President Vladimir Putin has mentioned the possibility of creating a new state in southeast Ukraine, where since April government forces have been clashing with pro-Russian rebels.
He has also warned European companies that now that sanctions have been imposed against Russia, it will be difficult for them to return to the Russian market.
He says the support provided by the West to the Ukrainian army in eastern Ukraine conflicts with democratic values.
He says when the conflict will end will depend on Kiev, and so he cannot say when the Ukrainian crisis will end.
More sanctions for Russia?
The Czech Republic has reserved the right to disagree with parts of the sanctions.
The European Commission, together with diplomats, will propose within a week what form the next round of sanctions against Russia will take, it decided at the EU summit overnight.
This was told to reporters by Herman Van Rompuy, the permanent chairman of meetings attended by member states.
According to Czech Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, the specific proposals for shifting the form of sanctions should be prepared already on Monday.
Tusk will be the new EU "president".
He will replace Van Rompuy in December.
At the EU summit, Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk was elected chairman of the European Council, and is therefore the "EU president", who oversees top meetings attended by member states' representatives.
As of December, he is replacing Herman Van Rompuy for two and a half years.
Italian Foreign Minister Federica Mogherini is replacing Catherine Ashton as the top EU diplomat.
The Italian, who will become deputy chairwoman of the future European Commission, still needs to be confirmed in the European Parliament before she can take over the position.
Assisted death is a reality in the Czech Republic that no one talks about.
Can a patient with a long-term or untreatable disease be helped end their life?
Not legally in the Czech Republic, since laws here do not permit euthanasia.
Nonetheless, some physicians contacted by LN say they have received such requests.
ALS: The most difficult chapter of neurology, a physician says about sclerosis
The Czech Republic has about 300 people suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and 21 patients are undergoing experimental stem-cell treatment at Prague's Motol Hospital.
"We don't know for sure whether it will be successful.
But if we don't try it, then we won't find out," says Radim Mazanec, a Motol neurologist.
This has the hallmarks of a CIA plot, since they needed a war, Huml writes about downed flight MH17.
Czech Social Democratic MP Stanislav Huml is clearly convinced of who shot down the Malaysian plane over Ukraine.
According to him, it is clear that the "tough sanctions that were announced in relation to the downing of the civilian aircraft with more than 300 dead was caused intentionally by the Ukrainian army."
According to the lawmaker, it also has the hallmarks of a CIA plot.
Promises that cannot be kept.
The elections are coming, and the parties are again offering even the impossible.
The end of homeless people on the streets, parking for every family and a cable car above Prague.
This is repeated every year: the parties promise the impossible.
Also now, with the coming municipal elections, politicians are exaggerating to impress voters more.
Lidovky.cz has put together a list of impossible to fulfill promises from the past and present.
70 years ago Czechoslovaks landed at Dunkerque.
This began a fierce siege.
It was 30 August 1944 when the independent Czechoslovak brigade moved to France.
Its commander, Alois Liška, properly requested replenishment of technical equipment and its sending to the front.
The British side eventually satisfied that request, and included the ground force as one of its own when overrunning the port city of Dunkerque, which had remained under the control of German troops.
SUMMARY: Plzeň leads the league ahead of the Prague "S", Liberec crushes Baník.
Viktoria Plzeň is the new leader of the soccer league, which it is leading a point ahead of both Prague "S" teams.
The changed situation is the result of a defeat of Slavie 1:2 in Mladé Boleslav.
After two defeats, Sparta recovered in the home league, and thanks to two interventions by Lafata it beat Jablonec.
Liberec enjoyed a record win, beating Baník Ostrava 6:0.
62,000 spectators for volleyball?
The Poles say yes.
The introduction to the Volleyball World Championship in Warsaw brought a record number of spectators.
At the soccer stadium under the pulled roof, 62,000 people watched the home team's easy win over Serbia.
The tickets were sold out in 100 minutes.
How to survive a return from vacation:
Don't rush anywhere, and get a plenty of sleep.
The last days of vacation are ahead of us.
Getting used to the regular work pace after returning from a sunny beach or cottage can be a challenge for many people.
It can even be accompanied by depression.
Fortunately, there is good advice for how to cope with the situation: don't rush, and get plenty of sleep.
Reality is distorted by headlines
The fact that media organizations distort reality with their headlines is (unfortunately) nothing new.
I know that headlines "sell" newspapers, but unfortunately I also know that there are a lot of so-called "readers" who don't read anything.
And it's a fact that has really bothered me recently, or, better put, infuriates me.
It has to do with, for example, articles about the conflict between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip.
Headlines such as "Israel attacks Gaza" are entirely common.
First you read in the text that the Israeli "attack" was a reaction to rockets being fired from Gaza, often during the declared ceasefire.
Then you get to a headline that says "Both sides violate ceasefire".
Does the journalistic profession realize that with their approach they are directly contributing to anti-Semitic sentiment, which is growing all over Europe (and not only there).
It hasn't been even sixty years since the end of the Second World War.
There are still people alive who survived the Holocaust.
When I saw a video from the Federal Republic of Germany, where a crowd was shouting things like "Jewish swine" and similar despicable phrases, it struck me.
Does the world want to finish what Hitler didn't manage to?
Do our journalists realize that after the Jews, the Slavs were targeted for liquidation?
Ladies and Gentlemen in the journalist profession, please be a bit more careful in your work.
You are often referred to as "watchdogs of democracy".
So enhance that.
While it's still here.
And also promote the right of the only truly democratic country in the Middle East to defend its population.
How would you want our government to behave if one of our neighbors decided that it wanted to liquidate the Czech nation and erase the Czech Republic from the world's map?
Maybe you should realize one more fact.
Nearly 20% of the Arabs on Israel's territory have Israeli citizenship.
And they feel good there.
When you ask them why they don't go to be among "their own", for example to Gaza, they will ask you why they should.
In Israel, they have work, social certainties and top quality health care (I have seen with my own eyes how Arabs too go to the top quality Hadassa hospital, which is financed from sponsorship donations from Jews around the world, and those Arabs are understandably treated there).
Hamas is also attacking its Arab brothers with its rockets.
The only true way of helping Gaza, and the tense region, is to remove and disarm Hamas.
And not to condemn Israel, even if only indirectly through headlines.
Get informed about Hamas' practices and its use of people as human shields.
Get informed that Hamas' goal is to liquidate the State of Israel at any cost.
Even if it causes the death of innocent Arab children.
Get informed that Hamas is on the list of global terrorist organizations.
Get informed that in the nine years of self-governance in Gaza, it could have blossomed thanks to humanitarian aid from all over the world.
Even from Israel, which supplies water and electricity, for which of course the rulers of Gaza don't pay, and then they even get upset when power supplies are sometimes interrupted.
If Hamas did not invest its money into constructing underground tunnels to enable suicide bombers to penetrate into Israel, but instead into activities such as construction of residential housing, hospitals and schools, its Arab brothers from Gaza would live much better.
The Second Foundational Falsehood of Creationism.
Another translation into Czech of a writing by American atheist vlogger AronRa.
This time on the topic: "Scriptures are the Word of God."
Original video attached.
The 2nd foundational falsehood of creationism is the belief that sacred scriptures were written by a god rather than by the actual human authors.
When believers argue over any of the many things which contradict their religion, they often challenge us to decide whom we are going to believe.
The alleged "word" of God? Or that of Men?
As if human inquiry had no chance against the authority they imagine their doctrine to be.
But when they say, "men", they're talking about science.
And when they refer to the "word of God", they're talking about myths written about God by men.
If there really is an intelligent and purposeful creator, then it would have to be he who constructed the fossil record revealing evolutionary history, and he has to be the one who conceived the genetic patterns which also trace that same course, and it must have been he who added the other lines of evidence which point to the evolutionary conclusion exclusively and in brilliant detail.
Why else would all these things exist?
It's as if he were trying to tell us something!
Men couldn't create any of those things.
But men can tell stories, whoppers in fact.
And it was men who wrote all the scriptures pretending to speak for God.
Every one of the world's supposedly "holy" doctrines of any religion describe themselves as being written by men, not gods.
Men who were "moved by" or inspired by their favorite gods, or perhaps taking dictation from angels, but they were written by lowly imaginative yet imperfect mortals none the less; not by angels, and certainly not by gods.
If there really was one true god, it should be a singular composite of every religion's gods, an uber-galactic super-genius, and the ultimate entity of the entire cosmos.
If a being of that magnitude ever wrote a book, then there would only be one such document; one book of God.
It would be dominant everywhere in the world with no predecessors or parallels or alternatives in any language, because mere human authors couldn't possibly compete with it.
And you wouldn't need faith to believe it, because it would be consistent with all evidence and demonstrably true, revealing profound morality and wisdom far beyond contemporary human capacity.
It would invariably inspire a unity of common belief for every reader.
If God wrote it, we could expect no less.
But what we see instead is the very opposite of that.
Instead of only one religion leading to one ultimate truth, we have many different religions with no common origin, all constantly sharding into ever more deeply-divided denominations, seeking conflicting truths, and each somehow claiming divine guidance despite their ongoing divergence in every direction.
The Jewish Torah, the Christian gospels, the Qur'an of Islam, the Kitab-i-Aqdas of Bahá'u'lláh, the Hindu Vedas, the Avestas of Zarathustra, the Adi-Granth of the Sikhs, the Mahabarata's Bhagavad-Gita, the Book of Mormon, and the Urantia book are all declared to be the "absolute truth" and the "revealed word" of the "one true" god, and believers of each say the others are deceived.
The only logical probability is that they all are â€“at least to some degree.
None of these have any particular advantage over the others.
None of them have any evidentiary support, and none of them are historically verifiable.
"I'm Dr. Paul Maier, professor of ancient history at Western Michigan University.
I'm not saying that now I have proven the Bible is authoritative, is accurate historically.
Of course not.
You still have to have faith."
All of them require faith, and apologetics as well, because they also contain inconsistencies, absurdities, and primitive notions once held true but which have since been disproved.
So they can claim no evidence of divine wisdom.
Many of them promote heinous atrocities in place of morality, and many claim to be validated by prophecies now fulfilled â€“ where each may also contain prophesies which failed to come to pass as predicted.
Leading theologians admit that all of the scriptures of any religion were written by human hands and were thus subject to the interpretations, impressions and perspectives of their primitive and often prejudiced and politically-motivated authors, and they cite this as the explanation behind many of the contradictions in those books, especially those in the Bible.
"Well I wouldn't call them contradictions as much as commentaries, the one on the other.
Again, let's point out, we probably do have two different authors here who's work was blended together then in editorial revisioning somewhat."
He's right about there being more than one author for Genesis, and it was definitely not an eyewitness account!
Some experts now recognize four different sources just for the Pentateuch, the five books of "Moses", and they don't credit Moses as the author of any of them as he evidently never existed as described.
The scholarly consensus is that Genesis was compiled, (probably by Ezra) from several unrelated oral traditions less than 2,500 years ago.
Other documents filtered in at the same time, all of which attributed to human authors.
The Bible is nowhere near as old as believers say it is!
The Dead Sea Scrolls are the oldest archaeological texts known for the still unfinished basis of all of western monotheism, yet they're each centuries younger than the origins of Zoroastrian, Buddhist, Hindu, Hellenist, Druidic, Chinese and Egyptian religions.
Christianity began with the Gnostic faith, and then the Docetics, and Ebionites, and their completely different perspectives of Jesus were eventually combined into a kind of compromise called Orthodoxy.
Other Christian subsets like the Luciferians were overrun and discredited by further Biblical revisions.
One of these revisions relates to the king of Ugarit around 3,500 years ago.
As his followers were the principle competition with the emerging religion of Moses, scribes working on the New Testament chose to demonize Ba'al ZeBul, the "Lord on High", by distorting his name to Beelzebub, the "Lord of the Flies".
So the Bible has been deliberately and deceptively altered for both religious and political reasons.
The rest of what became the New Testament was canonized in the 4th century in a series of committee decisions at a convention at Nicea.
Four gospels were accepted and sixteen more were rejected, all by a show of hands, as if the facts of the matter could be evaluated or dismissed by popular vote.
"The way the canon developed was by what was being read on Sunday in the centers of Christianity.
What do you read on the 2nd Sunday after Easter in the church in Jerusalem?
What's the church of Rome reading at this time?
And they found that again and again, they were zeroing in on the same stories in the gospels.
And so the core of the canon kind of developed from the usage of the early church".
So the council simply accepted as gospel whatever few relevant stories the uneducated masses happened to like at that time.
But they still opted to remove more than a dozen books from the Bible even though they were still referenced by other books they chose to include.
Among the rejected items were the writings of both apostles and prophets.
Why would God's word refer us to other books which were some human's word, and/or are no longer available?
Who were the real editors here?
The Bible often names human authors.
But how could it make such an admission if God were the real author and editor of this haphazard jumble of fables, parables, and psalm lyrics?
The Bible was very definitely written by men, and not superior men either; far from it!
This is why so much of it can be shown to be historically and scientifically dead wrong about damned-near everything back-to-front.
We're talking about people who believe snakes and donkeys can talk, who believe in incantations, blood sacrifice, ritual spells, enchanted artifacts, pyrotechnic potions, astrology, and the five elements of witchcraft.
They thought that if you use a magic wand to sprinkle blood all over someone, it will cure them of leprosy.
We're talking about people who think that rabbits chew cud, and that bats are birds, and whales are fish, and that Pi is a round number.
These folks believed that if you display striped patterns to a pregnant cow, it would bare striped calves.
How could anyone say that who knows anything about genetics?
Obviously the authors of this book didn't.
If the Bible had been written by a supreme being, then it wouldn't contain the mistakes that it does.
If it was written by a truly superior being, and meant to be read as a literal history, then the Bible wouldn't contain anything that it does.
As a moral guide, it utterly fails, because much of the original Hebrew scriptures were written by ignorant and bigoted savages who condoned and promoted animal cruelty, incest, slavery, abuse of slaves, spousal abuse, child abuse, child molestation, abortion, pillage, murder, cannibalism, genocide, and prejudice against race, nationality, religion, sex, and sexual orientation.
To justify their own inhumanity by claiming to do the will of God.
But creationists still continue to ignore all of that.
Some of their sites even admit that wherever reality conflicts with the Bible, then reality must be ignored!
And why is that?
Because if creationists didn't have their beloved books, they wouldn't have a god either.
One is the other in their world.
Ironically, the faithful reject the "works" of God as "worshipping creation over the creator."
But then they prop up the words of men before God, as God, and even insist that disproving their supposedly "holy" books would somehow disprove God too.
Not just their version of God, but everyone else's version of God as well.
Creationist Christians think that if the Bible is wrong, then God lied.
They cannot accept that God could exist but the Bible be wrong because they can't distinguish doctrine from deity.
So it is a form of idolatry wherein the believers worship man-made compilations as though those books were God himself -because they think it is HIS word.
But God never wrote or dictated any of the scriptures of any religion.
Everything men chose to reject from or include in their supposedly "inalterable word" of whatever god was conceived, composed, compiled, translated, interpreted, edited, and often deliberately altered and enhanced by mere fallible men.
The original is available here:
An attacker at a Chinese school has stabbed nine people, three of whom have died.
According to the New China agency, the man, named Chen entered an elementary school building by force in the morning and attacked at around 10:30 a.m. local time.
Three of the nine people he stabbed later died in the hospital.
Chen eventually killed himself by jumping from a height, New China reported, citing regional government officials.
China has experienced a series of similar attacks in schools and against children in recent years.
Therefore, the public is calling for more security measures and better protection of children in the country, where a lot of married couples have only one child in accordance with the government's policy.
Zeman shows first graders in Lány how he had to sit in school
The smallest school children were taken to their class by ninth graders, where they waited with their teacher for the president's arrival.
He then showed them how he had to sit in school.
"We had to sit with our hands behind our backs, but fortunately you don't have to do that, because you're already free people," Zeman told the children.
His wife then gave the first graders a brain teaser as a gift.
President Miloš Zeman and his wife visit a first-grade elementary school classroom in Lány.
Education Minister Marcel Chládek commenced the new school year at a private sports school in Litvínov.
"This year I want to get Czech schools more involved in Czech sports," he said, explaining one of the reasons why he had traveled to Northern Bohemian on the first day of school.
The school administration had addressed him some time ago at a hockey match in Litvínov.
"They were first, and so I accepted the invitation to attend the start of the school year," the minister said.
Minister of Education Marcel Chládek (Czech Social Democratic Party) began the school year at a private sports school in Litvínov.
A total of 115,000 first graders began their first classes this year.
More than 850,000 children will attend elementary schools, and more than 405,000 students will attend high schools, the Ministry of Education predicts.
David Fiala named new TV Nova news art director
David Fiala has become the new art director for TV Nova's news and current affairs department as of September 1.
He is replacing Alan Zárubu, who since June 1 has headed the creative department of the entire Nova group.
David Fiala previously worked in the graphics department of news channel Z1.
In the past two years, under the leadership of Alan Zárubu, he participated in the implementation of a complete visual transformation of the Televizní noviny evening news show, the programs Střepiny, Prásk! and other current affairs programs at TV Nova.
"David Fiala is very good at team work and communication among news desks, studio management and the graphics department, which is basically the work of a news art director.
He has a feel for typography and pure elegant design, which is the path we want to stay on for visual production for Nova news," says Nova's creative director Alan Zárubu.
Apple iCloud reportedly hacked, naked celebrity photos leaked
Screenshot with a list of leaked files
A so far anonymous user on the 4chan website has been publishing naked and even pornographic photos of American celebrities, the U.S. website Mashable.com reports.
It reportedly gained unauthorized access to user accounts on Apple's servers, where the affected users had uploaded them via automatic back-ups of images from iPhones and iPads.
Apple has not yet commented about the problem.
Some celebrities are denying the authenticity of the pictures, say they are forgeries, but others have already admitted that they are genuine.
They include actress Jennifer Lawrence, known from the title role of Katniss in the "Hunger Games" movie series and Mary Elizabeth Winstead, who has played in movies such as "Die Hard 4.0".
The hacker's aim is to use the photos and videos to get rich.
Interest in them has reportedly been expressed by American magazines, but according to report on 4chan, the hacker would rather get money from the community.
According to the website The Next Web, the incident is very likely due to a weakness in security of the iCloud.
Two days ago, a tool reported on the website GitHub, which made it possible to gain passwords to user accounts through brute force, by automatically repeating log-in attempts with various passwords.
That tool provably worked, but Apple patched the hole two days later.
However, it is clear that potential attackers had a lot of time to gain access to various accounts before the tool was made available to the public.
As a preventive precaution, iCloud users should change their Apple ID passwords.
What's important is the length of the password, not how complex it is.
A good length is at least 12 characters.
The leak of naked photos of celebrities can be considered a reminder of the need to use online services securely.
Although the servers of companies such as Apple, Google and Microsoft are secured much better than computers in homes and small companies, uploading of sensitive photographs in unprotected form is an unnecessary risk.
If you want to back up explicit photos or any sensitive contents online, you should encrypt the files before uploading them.
It also makes sense to set up automatic back-ups from a phone in a way that ensures that they occur only over WiFi and after the phone is connected to a charger.
That way you will be able to move sensitive photos to a "safe place" in time, and mainly you will have time to delete bad photos, so they will not unnecessarily take up space in online storage services.
We are offering readers of HN and IHNED.cz a guide explaining how to encrypt files and communication in the form of an e-book by Michal Altair Valáška in PDF format.
Mud, nothing but mud.
And then in a well they found the torso of a rifle from the end of the war.
That well is located not far from the Church of St. George.
"We uncovered the surrounding vegetation and began pulling out an aged deposition, about a meter and a half of mud and rotten leaves.
When we got close to the clay bottom, we reached a barrel," Radomil Novák recalled.
We pulled it out, cleaned it and discovered that it was the torso of a German assault rifle used by SS units.
The finding was reportedly unusual.
"According to information available to me, these types of rifles were not manufactured until near the end of the war.
And there were about 300,000 of them," Novák added.
All items built with wood eventually decompose, and therefore it is not usable.
Of course, its body has been preserved and retains its shape.
How did it end up in the well?
One explanation exists.
"Maybe people who needed to get rid of weapons used by the SS threw it in their, probably out of fear of being expelled.
Fascists fleeing certainly did not do it.
They discarded weapons in the forest," say the founders.
The rifle was the only thing found in the well by the finders, members of the Jeseníky chapter of Friends of the Earth.
"There could have been hand grenades there as well, since there used to be a lot of them everywhere around, and therefore we slowed digging work and carefully sifted through the mud, so that nothing unfortunate would happen, but there was nothing else down there," Novák said.
The finding will end up in the depository of a museum at a chateau in nearby Slezských Rudolticích.
Ukrainian general: I have not yet freed the captured Czech
An exclusive interview by Aktuálně.cz with General Volodymyr Ruban, who is freeing Ukrainian soldiers from captivity by pro-Russian separatists.
Kiev/Prague - "Excuse me, I have to pick it up... they are calling me from Donetsk," he said, apologizing perhaps eight times during an exclusive interview conducted by Aktuálně.cz with Ukrainian General Volodymyr Ruban, who is also the director of the local Center for Liberation of Prisoners of War.
General Volodymyr Ruban in a television debate.
During each such interruption, it was not possible to hear the names of the people, their numbers and locations, where they are - or where they should be - which Ruban will clear up with his counterpart on the other end of the phone line.
"That's right, go there," he said, ending a quick discussion with someone in Donetsk, and then he focused on ours again.
Volodymyr Ruban is a general in the reserves, a former fighter plane pilot and was an active participant in the Maidan protests.
Still yesterday, when we arranged our interview, he was in Donetsk.
He devotes himself to freeing Ukrainian soldiers captured by pro-Russian separatists 24 hours a day.
Aktuálně.cz: Perhaps you know that there are also Czechs fighting on the pro-Russian separatists' side.
Our counter-intelligence service estimates that there are up to 30 of them.
But of course, there could be many more.
Have you already encountered any Czech prisoners of war during your negotiations?
Volodymyr Ruban: I have already freed captured Serbs, Dagestanis, Chechens, one Swede and a Georgian, but not a Czech yet.
But I know whom to turn to in Prague if we encounter one of your countrymen among prisoners of war and how to free him.
A Ukrainian soldier captured by separatists
A.cz: What advice would you give to Czechs who join the pro-Russian separatists and are captured by Ukrainian soldiers?
They should understand that if they are fighting as Czechs under Ukrainian banners of volunteers and separatists capture them, then after questioning them they will be shot without a pardon, just like any other foreigner.
The separatists consider these men to be mercenaries, and they say such people don't deserve anything other than death.
But if, for example, Ukrainian soldiers capture a group of Donetsk separatists and there is, for example, a Czech among them, they will put him behind bars and negotiate with him as a prisoner of war.
In short, that man will live.
The Ukrainian side behaves like a country even in war.
A.cz: And how many Ukrainian prisoners of war have you already managed to rescue?
If I understand well, by exchanging.
Some sources say that the number exceeded a hundred men just recently.
Long ago, we already stopped counting how many people we've helped.
We just freed them, we did not rescue them from war if they decided to continue in battles.
The rescuers in a war are doctors, surgeons, but certainly not us.
That is how it was.
And every day there are more and more.
Every day we rescue someone.
Sometimes one person, and sometimes four or five.
And there isn't always an exchange involved.
Sometimes just a mere human request is enough to gain the release of prisoners.
A.cz: Word has it that in just a few months you have gained a lot of authority in dealings with the pro-Russian separatists and even their trust, just like in Ukrainian society.
How did you manage to earn respect from both warring parties?
That's a difficult question.
One of the officers in Kiev has given me the nickname "the crazy general with steel balls".
That doesn't offend me.
But perhaps it highlights the basis of our work.
As the head of the Ukrainian Officers Association, I had already earned certain authority previously.
I never take advantage of people, I never cheat, and I always keep my word.
No matter what's happening, I act honestly and tell the truth.
I do so even when it is very unpleasant for the Ukrainian government or for the representatives in Donetsk or Luhansk.
And if they torture and kill people?
Then I simply tell them that they are torturing and killing.
And that those are crimes.
At the same time, they often risk their lives, and they even impressed me during prisoner swaps... this work can be the end for me at any time... I don't have to return to it.
A.cz: How many executions and incidents of torture of prisoners are you aware of?
... (long pause)... Both Ukrainians and separatists resort to torturing prisoners during questioning.
Unfortunately.
And executions?
They take place only on the Donetsk side.
I don't have any information about the Ukrainian army executing any prisoners.
I don't have any information either to suggest that the Ukrainian army would even resort to such a tactic.
We have a guess about the number of executions, but I can neither give you any numbers, nor do I want to.
A.cz: Please describe to me the character among the pro-Russian separatist and their motives.
They include officers and even veterans from Afghanistan.
They are seeking independence and perhaps even democracy in Donetsk or Luhansk, or at least they say so.
They no longer want to play their cards with the Ukrainian oligarchs.
The separatists have had enough of the oligarchs an are their unwavering opponents, for life and death.
As we say, they're up to their necks.
By the way, the same dreams and wishes were expressed by people at the Maidan.
And now there is some speculation: Russia is supporting the separatists, and the West is supporting Ukraine.
I consider one speculation large and the other small.
But just that sentence hides within it an implacable dispute.
A.cz: For example, what's your impression of one of the toughest leaders of the pro-Russian separatists, Igor Bezler?
Whenever I cross the front line, I'm unarmed and raise my bare hands to soldier and rebels.
And both sides always have me within a range of 200 or 300 meters of their sight or optical sensor.
I can always well see the faces of the people who approach me, and they can press the triggers on their weapons at any time.
Paratrooper and experienced colonel of both German and Ukrainian descent.
He considers himself a Russian officer, even though his family (mother) lives in Ukraine.
He thinks Ukraine shouldn't exist.
And if so, then as a small colony in a vast Russian Empire.
In any case, he keeps talking about it, and he considers Ukraine somehow to be result of a certain misunderstanding.
He says such a state should not exist.
He is also an unwavering enemy of all Ukrainian oligarchs.
A.cz: Speaking of characters, in a Ukrainian TV discussion show you described your prime minister, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, as a weak, clueless and tired "leader" who would do best if he left quickly.
In walking three meters, I always become scared at least fivefold.
Why should I conceal my opinion that Yatsenyuk is a very weak prime minister and is harming our country?
A.cz: Do you believe he is a participant in the war in Ukraine?
Perhaps you know that the Ukrainians call Yatsenyuk a "rabbit".
A rabbit in the eyes of Ukrainians is not an animal that would prompt fear or earn respect and authority from others.
His behavior copies the behavior of a rabbit.
Maybe he's a good economist, but as a prime minister in a war, he doesn't have the right to cry in Parliament, make requests, play with it using his intrigue and threaten to resign.. he has to lead the country, manage it and protected it during the war.
When putting the country at risk, the prime minister is not entitled to a family, friends, rest or crying.
After all, he's the prime minister of Ukraine.
And Yatsenyuk?
He behaves like a girl in puberty.
Yes, he's tired, but he's also weak, because he has never been strong, and he doesn't fight for Ukraine, he just complains about everything.
Therefore, he should leave.
The sooner he does, the better for Ukraine.
North Korea threatens Seoul again by firing rocket
North Korea has fired another short-range rocket into the sea, Seoul has announced.
The rocket test reportedly occurred shortly after the end of joint military maneuvers by the United States and South Korea, which Pyongyang views as preparation for an invasion.
The Chagang province is located in the northwest part of the DPRK, along the country's border with China.
A spokesman for the South Korean Defense Ministry was quoted by the DPA news agency as saying that the rockets had been fired from a location in the northwest part of the DPRK and had reached a distance of about 200 km.
This is apparently the first time North Korea has fired a rocket from the Chagang province, South Korean media reported, citing military sources.
There is reportedly an underground launching ramp for Scud rockets in the province.
This is another of a series of similar tests, which the isolated North Korean regime has carried out in recent weeks.
This year North Korea carried out an unusually high number of rocket and artillery tests.
Olomouc took away one point from Opava, and Vašíček had the potential winning goal on his foot.
The 23-year-old forward was able to decide, but in his two biggest chances he did not succeed.
After the goal, there was mainly a shot from nearby three minutes before the end, but instead of in the net it was caught by Opava goalkeeper Josef Květoňovi.
"I had it on my foot, and I have to take advantage of such a chance.
I'm angry at myself," Vašíček, dumping ashes onto his head.
"I guess I should have shot higher below top of the net," he said.
Sigma's defense did not allow Opava much, but an exception was Mikul's shot from the 11th minute, which, however, was blocked by goalkeeper Riechl.
Then the Hanáci players began putting on pressure, but the defending home players did not give them a chance, and Květoňovi blocked goal attempts from a distance.
We compared for fifteen minutes, and then we took up the initiative.
We were already better in the second half, we had more of the game, and Opava posed a threat to us only in standard situations.
But Vašíček did not turn around the failed opportunity, and so it ended 0:0," said Hanáků coach Leoše Kalvoda, expressing his disappointment.
Opava took the point also due to absences besides two injured players, Petr Vavřík and three-goal shooter Petr Ševčíkem, hosting in Silesia from Sigma, were also missing.
That team did not enable them to play, despite its previous policy.
Substitutes deserve closure.
"Sigma took more of a soccer-like approach, but except for one standard we did not let them do anything," commented the Silesians' coach, Petr Baránek.
A lot of emphasis, aggressiveness and combativeness could be seen.
"The draw is probably deserved, because a point for us is a decent gain," he added.
With the draw, Sigma got to four points, which means thirteenth place.
Nothing that could satisfy team head Josef Lébra, who following defeat in a match with Znojmo conditioned his investment of a million on diametrically differing performance in subsequent matches.
"We realized Mr. Lébra's warning, so there can be no talk about the guys not wanting to fight," Kalvoda noted, addressing top shooter Vašíček, and he added, "I am confident that the moment will come, and as soon as he shoots a goal, it will start hitting the target.
But after the first successful shot, I will replace him immediately, so that he can shoot goals during other games too," Kalvoda said, laughing.
Al Pacino has captivated Venice twice.
Otherwise, the film festival is experiencing a crisis.
Following the major enthusiasm about the starting movie "Birdman", whose director, Alejandro González Iňárritu, was included among the serious candidates for the Golden Lion award, the days that followed gave the impression that interest in the 71-year-old festival in Venice had somewhat faded.
Whether because the number of seats in the largest theater has increased to 1,400 or because "Birdman" was followed by critically acclaimed, but for viewers less attractive, films such as a documentary about the genocide in Indonesia in the 1960s, "View of Silence", and other films with social themes, from the American movie "99 Homes" to Iranian "Tales", seats still remained empty in cinemas.
Comics heroes
Even the red carpet in front of the movie palace did not draw as many crowds as in the past, and it reportedly ceased to be a problem to get a hotel room at the last minute.
The crisis is being talked about in Italy more than anywhere else, and it's no wonder that it has even affected established events such as the Biennale and the oldest film festival in the world.
Fortunately, the crisis does not feature a lack of celebrities, but they have been present only in connection with movies.
While young fans have craved autographs of comic super hero actors Michael Shannon and Andrew Garfield, who played the roles successfully in "99 Homes", for all generations without any differences the main event was the visit by the legendary actor Al Pacino.
He even appeared immediately in two movies.
In the story "Epiphany", screened outside of the competition and filmed by Oscar-winning Barry Levison according to the novel by Phillip Roth, 74-year-old Pacino has a role that is close to him: a highly celebrated actor who suffers from depression from the end of his career and personal life.
But seeing him immediately on the second day as the nerdy owner of an ironmongery from a small rural town in the movie "Manglehorn", filmed by David Gordon Green, was truly an unforgettable experience.
The Volpi Cup for the best acting performance is not expected to miss him, but does an artist with Pacino's style need prizes?
Maybe admiration from the public is the greatest satisfaction for him, especially Italian admiration, since although he was born in New York, Al Pacino is proud of the country from which his great grandparents originate.
Points for Italy
Italian film is generally doing very well in Venice.
"Black Souls", directed by Francesco Munzi, became after "Birdman" the first movie that received a lengthy round of applause.
A Calabrese offshoot of the Mafia in it is viewed through family relationships between clans, who are fighting with each other over power and money, and the director managed to fulfill all expectations for a good film: good screenplay, camera shots, music and actors.
The psycho thriller "The Hungry Heart", filmed by Saverio Costanzo with Alba Rohrwacher in the role of a woman who through her fits of rage nearly kills her own child, also received acclaim.
However, the competing French films did not enjoy such a warm reception, neither "Ransom for Glory" nor "3 Hearts", both of which follow the traditional model of movies for consumption, which rely on the popularity of acting personalities.
But in the end, two really excellent films, "Birdman" and "Black Souls", are not so few for the first half of the festival.
And while the festival films have somewhat depressive themes, the new film by Peter Bogdanovich entitled "She's Funny That Way", a humorous comedy shown in Venice outside of the competition and filmed in the style of American comedies from the 1940s, managed to lift everyone's mood for more than a day.
Police in Prague have captured four producers of meth, who were bringing medications from Poland.
"In the past few days, detectives arrested three men ages 42, 42, and 37 and a woman, 25, who from last November to this August produced and sold meth in Prague 9," said police spokeswoman Jana Rösslerová.
First on Tuesday, August 12, the deployment unit on Cihlářské Street caught the 42-year-old organizer and dealer and a young woman, who figured in the group as a buyer of medications in Poland and a seller of doses.
Based on prior permission from the state prosecutor, police then arrested another member of the group the next day, a 37-year-old man.
The police caught the last of the four in the morning hours of Wednesday, August 20, at the site of the Malešické incineration plant," the spokeswoman said.
The woman received a third of the drugs in exchange for bringing in the medications.
The main organizer was active in many places.
At a workshop in Letná, in a cottage in Horoměřicích, in an apartment on Koněvově Street and in other places in Prague 9 he produced meth, obtained various supplies and chemicals necessary for its production and ensured the transport of drugs containing pseudoephedrine from Poland.
He then weighed the produced drug, placed amounts of it in plastic sacks and then sold the meth.
A woman, who has yet to be punished, helped him with the transfer of the medications from Poland and with sales to drug users.
"She received a third of the produced drugs from the organizer in exchange for her services," Rösslerová added.
Based on a court order, law enforcement officials also conducted several home searches, where they found drugs, industrial chemicals, digital scales, plastic sacks, injection syringes, hoses and other supplies and items, which according to experts can be considered a complete set of supplies for methamphetamine production.
The dealer had already been punished seven times since 1995.
"From the available evidence, the police discovered that the main organizer had been convicted in court of property crimes a total of seven times since 1995, and the woman had never been convicted," the police spokesperson added.
The last man arrested was conditionally sentenced in 2006 for sexual assault, and a 37-year-old auto mechanic, who is not being held in custody during prosecution, has received nine court convictions since 2009.
He was mostly sentenced for property crimes.
The investigator has charged three men and a woman with prohibited production and other handling of narcotic and psychotropic substances and poisons, for which they could face up to 10 years in prison.
"For three persons, the investigator eventually filed a request with the state prosecutor asking that they be remanded into custody, and a judge eventually honored the request and placed them there," said the spokesperson.
The fourth accused, a 37-year-old recidivist, remains free.
His position and role in the activity was not as significant as the other accused.
Police are continuing to work with that man.
Ferrari offers chess sets made of wood and carbon.
Ferrari is offering some very interesting items for very "interesting" prices within its further line of products.
A good example is a chess set handmade in Italy with a 42 x 42 cm playing board.
If you like it, prepare to pay more than CZK 40,000.
The exact price is CZK 43,405.
The customer will gain a set of wooden black and red coated chess pieces stored in a wooden box coated with carbon fibers.
It probably will not surprise anyone that instead of the classic knight, players have available a chess piece resembling a prancing horse.
If the chess set does not seem like a very valuable gift to you, a model Ferrari 500 F2 is also available, which is made (for course by hand) to scale of 1:1.8.
The price of this toy is CZK 318,305.
Canceling high schools and secondary schools doesn't make sense.
The Czech Republic does not have enough generally education people, and moreover statistics show that high school students have good prospects.
The beginning of the school year is here.
Major preparations have been carried out in schools in the past fourteen days.
Most of this has been routine preparation, such as bringing flowers from their summer storage areas back to the classrooms and preparing chalk.
At Hořický High School, there will be a bit more to do.
A couple of days before the start of the season, they are looking for furniture, computers and other technical equipment as well as literature for the library.
This is neither the result of burglary or embezzlement. After three years, Hořický High School is reopening and resuming its activities.
Not on a public, but on a private platform.
The shortage of material furnishings is not because the founders were incompetent.
They had to expect that the school's existence would be confirmed by its entry into the register of schools administered by the Czech Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports.
Prague won't restrict gambling, busking before elections
Amendments to relevant regulations are not expected to be prepared and approved until after the capital city's new leaders take their positions.
Additional gambling halls will not disappear from Prague's streets before the municipal elections, and the city will not restrict street art.
Even walking dogs will not be restricted.
Prague will not manage by the October elections to prepare and approve amendments to the relevant regulations in the City Assembly.
"Furthermore, the decisions about changes are not expected to be made by the city's current leaders, whose mandate ends in a few weeks," said council member Lukáš Manhart (TOP 09).
Several local town halls have decided to ban gambling facilities on their territory immediately in recent weeks, such as Prague 5 and 7.
However, the gambling halls are not going away, and the regulations will not be changed for now.
That task will be up to the city's new leaders after the elections.
"Right now we would not even technically be able to manage it in time, because of, for example, the deadlines for submitting feedback, etc." Manhart explained.
He pointed out that the last session of the current City Council, which must approve the change, will take place on September 11.
A referendum on a total ban on gambling halls will take place on the day of the municipal elections in Prague 1 and Prague 8.
There is currently a ban on gambling halls in locations such as Prague 2 and Prague 12.
For the same reasons, the regulation will not be changed even for street art, known as busking.
That activity has been complained about mainly by Prague 1, which has already sent City Hall a proposed list of locations which it would like to add to the locations where it is already banned.
Prague 5 does not want musicians near Anděla either.
A directive that would regulate dog walking has been planned by the city for several months, but its preparation is not yet finished.
Locations of gambling halls and the issue of busking are being resolved by municipal decrees.
They can be issued and amended only by the Prague City Council.
The town halls have only an advisory say, and they themselves cannot issue decrees.
Last week, supporters of Scottish independence were in reach of a victory.
The campaign for Scottish independence was in danger of making the same mistake three times, when it almost placed billboards all over Scotland asking if Scots wanted to be rich.
However, you will not win over the hearts of Scottish voters by appealing to their wallets, and you will not even gain their respect when you start threatening them.
The morals in the New Testament are still very relevant in Scotland, even though only a small number of Scots still go to church.
Scots have a much greater tendency to push money changers out of their houses of worship rather than allowing others to dictate to them how they should vote.
The Scottish nationalists' leader, Alex Salmond, knows this very well, and therefore in the television discussion he repeatedly asked his rival, unionist Darling, whether he would be willing to respect "the sovereign will of the Scottish people," if Scottish voters chose independence, and whether he would begin supporting a single currency for Scotland as well as for England.
This forced Darling to choose between Scottish civil society and London bankers, and this situation made him grimace.
Of course, Darling will not support the mandate of Scottish voters.
Although this discussion about what currency Scotland would have has been more or less neutralized.
What really motivates Scottish voters are fairness, job opportunities and protection of the state health care system, which citizens enjoy free of charge.
Regarding the issue of the currency, Darling has supported London bankers and has also created the impression that he will not protest against privatization of health care.
In doing so, Salmond said, "Get in bed with Conservatives."
That is a very dangerous position for any Scottish politician.
Every Scottish voter knows that Scottish businessmen are in bed with Conservatives.
This has been confirmed by David Cameron, who spoke in Scotland not to voters, but to an association of "bosses", the Confederation of British Industry.
It is becoming clear that Cameron's refusal to debate about independence with Scottish Prime Minister Salmond was a major mistake for the unionist campaign.
It makes Cameron look like a cowardly absentee at home.
The Scots would respect him if he came to a debate with the Scottish prime minister.
Cameron at least managed to say that Scotland could be "a successful independent country".
Alistair Darling cannot manage to say anything like that, and it almost causes him physical pain.
What he is sharing is clear: Scots shouldn't jump up and down and must accept things as they are.
The longest year has 10 months.
A pessimistic start of school according to Miloše Urbana
Illustrations for the story "Longest Year"
Miloše Urbana "Longest Year"
The end was the best part of the vacation period, the last week, when nothing went anywhere any more and we just whiled away the hours during Indian summer, the calm before the storm, the quiet before the storm, the calm before stress.
New clothes, when they could be found at Tuzex, and shoes from East Germany.
Reading "Rapid Arrows" for the fiftieth time, swishing on our bikes around the Imperial all the way to behind Karlovy Vary, somewhere towards tennis courts, when it was no longer hot and the sun shined on our backs and shoulders and patted them with parting rays.
Slight nervousness in the evening, still in vacation mode, sleeping until half past ten, but in a week it will be worse, and shortly before falling asleep time stretches from a couple of minutes to two hours, followed by getting up at half past six in the morning.
Monday will come.
Usually it won't rain, but instead summer sneers in an evil manner before school.
Plowing through the eerie light of the commons and feeling like a plastic figure in a glass paperweight, there is the school, ZDŠ A.
Zápotockého, with a dreary pink facade, and in front of it there are the same familiar faces and some new ones, taller boys and bustier girls.
There are the bullies, so avoid them, though it's still interesting how they always stick together and how they are here so early.
And those grown-up-looking girls, who came shyly, are now giggling about something hysterically, indicating that something must have changed in their lives during vacation, while everything is still the same for me.
And what about the new first-graders, some of them nervous and others excited, why are they coming over here at all?
Because they have to, as if school were like compulsory military service.
So as we enter, we sense the cool dampness of the floor, the slight odor of disinfectant, the annoyed janitor with a mop, unfortunately still the same one, who reportedly lends students a key to a metal locker, where textbooks can be left and of which there are still so few.
For a bottle.
The stench of the locker rooms is stuck in memory, but now it isn't present, because the location has been well ventilated, but in a week it will be worse.
Just imagining it turns one's stomach and initiates a headache.
A head that even worse handles math lessons, the devilish game for the chosen ones, among whom I don't belong and never will.
Satisfactory and poor grades again or, God forbid, failing grades, hiding from tests, sitting down in the chair and zoning out as much as possible, being there and not being there, existing only as a name on the attendance sheet and dreaming up stories about more loving girls and starry buildings, antennas reaching into space, where no one competes with anyone, no one puts anyone down and no one trips you up.
The longest year has ten months.
And it's only the first day, now just like years ago.
She let her unborn daughters die.
She may face an exceptional sentence - Novinky.cz
The first birth occurred in March 2012 in a public restroom stall at the bus station in Jihlava.
Without anyone else's help, she gave birth to a small girl, and after cutting off her umbilical cord she placed the baby in a prepared blanket, hid the child under her jacket and took her to a side road, where she left her in the bushes just a few dozen meters from the roadway.
She gave birth on the way to school.
It happened a little early.
"I was on the way to school.
In the bus, I felt like I needed to go to the restroom, and that's where I gave birth.
She was born live and looked at me.
I cut off the umbilical cord with scissors, which I was carrying to school," the accused said, adding that she was ashamed to be pregnant.
"On the next day, she returned to the location, placed the child's body in a backpack and carried it away, then removed the body from the backpack, wrapped it in a black plastic bag and hid it under the stairway at her grandmother's home in Havlíčkobrodsku" the lawsuit reads, adding that it is not entirely clear when the newborn's death occurred.
It could have been within fifteen minutes to half an hour, but even several hours after birth, through suffocation by the blanket or during placement beneath the jacket, freezing to death or bleeding from the unbandaged abdomen.
A similar incident occurred next year in the spring.
The woman at an unclear time between February and April 12, when the child's body was found by passersby below the bushes near a pond in Havlíčkobrodsku, again gave birth by herself in secret.
This time in the bathroom of an attic apartment in a family house.
Even without checking whether the child had been born alive and even without cutting the umbilical cord, which was stretched around the neck, she placed the child into several pieces of plastic wrapping, including a plastic bag, and left her in the bathroom.
Then in the afternoon hours, she and her partner at the time took the child to a pond.
The boyfriend eventually turned her in
Both children's father was the defendant's boyfriend, who, however, reportedly didn't know about his partner's pregnancy.
That's another reason why he's not currently facing court proceedings, because he was punished for a misdemeanor violation legislation governing funerals.
He was also the one who later contacted police.
I don't like that he is not being punished as an accomplice.
He manipulated with the child against my wishes.
I know that my solution was not right, but at the time it seemed humane to me," the accused, who allegedly submitted to the man in the relationship and was afraid of him, said, not hiding her anger.
During her testimony, the young woman spoke relatively calmly.
She didn't begin crying until she started talking about her relationship with her parents, from whom she had left after reaching adulthood.
She said she didn't want to kill.
"They have been visiting me every 14 days, and they are doing everything they can for me, even though I know that I don't deserve it," she said.
"I didn't get baby clothes, because I didn't want children, I thought I was too young.
I kept wanting to put the child in a baby box, but I don't know what happened or why I didn't do that.
That's something I can't explain to you," she said in response to the judge.
However, she denied that she had acted with the intention to kill the newborn.
She said furthermore that the second child had been born dead.
She had not stopped drinking alcohol even during pregnancy.
"But I limited it.
And I didn't drink hard liquor.
And I limited smoking too," she said.
Although her pregnancy was visible in both cases, she always claimed repeatedly in response to questions that she had health problems and was retaining water.
She even told this to her boyfriend.
The main hearing will continue at the court in Hradec on Tuesday with testimony from court experts.
The verdict could be handed down as early as Wednesday.
The woman could face up to 18 years in prison or even an exceptional punishment.
Sigma reconciles with Lébra, even without victory
Olomouc - the thunder and lightning that co-owner of Sigma Olomouc, Josef Lébra, unleashed on his subordinates last week seem to be over.
This is despite the fact that from Opava they eventually brought away only one point for a goalless draw.
Therefore, the team boss reconciled just a little with the team's efforts and combativeness.
The money for payouts is expected to come to the team soon.
"I will keep one more game, as I spoke about last week, but I'm already much more optimistic," Lébra confirmed, explained that although Sigma had not won, the players convinced him with their improved performance.
The combativeness and efforts with which we played mainly in the second half were exactly what I want to see from players.
In such situation, I am able to forgive them for not winning.
If we had played that way from the start of the season, then I am convinced that we wouldn't have lost," Lébra said.
In Opava, Sigma put a stop to the initial pressure from the home team, and then it balanced the game, and in the second half it was already better.
Following victory, Kalvoda's entrusted players exerted efforts, but they did not achieve any goals, and so they couldn't win.
"The result is not what we expected.
But for complete satisfaction, we were missing only one transformed opportunity," said Lébra, who believes, however, that the change in the players' approach was caused only by his threat.
"There were certainly multiple aspects.
Both from my side and from the side of the coach or fans," Lébra said.
Sigma has to anticipate pressure.
After the game in Opava, the players did not want to comment much regarding the events from last week.
"I'm trying to put these things completely behind me.
I have tried not to concede the situation," young goalkeeper Michal Reichl said, shaking his head.
Lébra's statement from last week was left entirely without comment by offensive player Václav Vašíček, who did not fulfill Sigma's biggest opportunity in the Saturday game.
However, he eventually spoke about it just a little.
"We'll always be under pressure.
Everyone wants to tear us apart.
Today we demonstrated that if we fight and kick everyone's ass, then it works," he said.
They took the warning to heart.
Even coach Leoš Kalvoda did not hesitate to say that the preparation for the game were not the easiest, given the atmosphere that was present in Olomouc last week.
It was very difficult.
But I think that the boys realized that, and today it was clear that they had taken Mr. Lébra's warning to heart.
This is true although even previously they did not want to fight and they slacked off," the Olomouc coach said.
"It was similar to today in the first fifteen minutes.
It lasted until we came to terms with the toughness and realized what a second league is all about.
That it's not about soccer, but mainly about fighting," Kalvoda said.
All that is left to do is hope that in the next games things will work for Sigma from the beginning.
"I would really like to believe that," he added.
MPs support greater state share in coal fees
Czech Republic to gain more than 400 million crowns
The Chamber of Deputies has supported the government's amendment to the Mining Act, which adjusts the yield from fees from the open-cast mining of brown coal from mining companies.
Minister Jan Mládek (ČSSD) told MPs that this will mean that both the state treasury and municipalities will receive more money.
The proposal was criticised by opposition MPs, who are afraid that that mining companies will no longer want to sponsor municipalities as before, as they would have to pay higher fees directly into state coffers.The Chamber of Deputies has supported the government's amendment to the Mining Act, which adjusts the yield from fees from the open-cast mining of brown coal from mining companies.
The state's share shall increase to 67 percent, whole municipalities' share shall be reduced from the current 75 percent to 33 percent.
The proposal also alters the method for the calculation of payments for minerals mined by companies.
A change in fees for the mining of minerals is to bring 427 million crowns more into state coffers than was the case in 2013.
According to the government, the measure will have a neutral effect on the income of municipalities as fees will be higher.
In the year before last, municipalities gained approx. 450 million crowns and the state treasury 150 million crowns.
Municipalities gained around 200 million crowns and the state 66 million crowns from lignite mining.
The amendment also anticipates the increase in payments from extraction areas with mining permits to one thousand crowns per hectare per year.
The entirety of income generated from these payment shall remain with the municipalities.
Minister for Industry Jan Mládek (ČSSD) told MPs that, thanks to this, municipalities will receive 100 million crowns per year, as opposed to the previous figure of 14 million crowns.
The amount of mining fees will no longer be determined by law, but stipulated by the government through decrees.
Payments will be calculated as the product of the quantity of minerals mined and rates for individual types of mineral.
According to the government, the reason for the change is, among others, the option of reacting flexibly to the current economic situation.
However, MP Marek Benda (ODS) warned that the setting of fees by government decree may not be in accordance with the constitution.
Minister Mládek responded saying that this would not be a tax, as in this case the government is making minerals - which are state property - subject to a fee.
Fees are received by the municipalities whose territory is affected by mining.
In the case of deep coal mining, three-quarters of the money is received by municipalities and one quarter by the state.
The same proportions shall apply to the extraction of radioactive rocks.
Part of the money collected by the state from fees shall be tied to a single purpose.
For example, 28 percent must be directed towards the remedying of damage following mining or the funding of the mine rescue service.
The proposal was today criticised by opposition MPs, who chiefly claimed that it would harm both municipalities and regional governments.
For example, Michal Kučera (TOP 09 a Starostové) warned that mining companies would no longer want to sponsor municipalities as before, as they would have to pay higher fees directly into state coffers.
"You can't asset-strip some of the poorest regions just so that the Finance Minister can improve his budget," said David Kádner (Úsvit), whose constituency is in the Ústí nad Labem Region
Communist MP Hana Aulická also warned of increased unemployment in the Most area.
Kádner and Aulická unsuccessfully proposed the rejection of the amendment, and Kučera wanted to return it to the government for revision.
The explanatory report states that, according to extraction companies, increases in fees would not be transmitted to coal prices as more than 90 percent of these are agreed on a long-term basis.
The chief consumers, power stations, would not, therefore, feel an increase in prices.
"On the other hand, though, this fact increases the risk that extraction organisations will compensate for increased payments with efforts to reduce their operating costs, which would primarily mean a reduction in the number of employees," admits the government.
However, it also stated that a fee increase would be bearable in terms of employment.
According to Milan Urban (ČSSD), who tabled the amendment, a key issue is for MPs to know the conclusions reached regarding the updated energy concept and, chiefly, the government's decision on coal extraction limits before passing the law.
He emphasised that, were coal to be mined beyond the limits, it would have an impact on yields for both the state and municipalities.
Urban does not agree with Mládek on the fact that the decision on the breaking of the limit at the Československé armády mine should only be taken after 2020.
He said that limits at the Československé armády mine should be broken due to social reasons, the national economy and the Czech energy sector.
Veselý to lead the Czechs as number one, seeding will be affected by the weather.
All four Czech tennis players will appear on the table at Thursday's draw for the Davis Cup play-off in India, and this time all of them will probably play.
Due to the difficult weather conditions, captain Jaroslav Navrátil is planning to spread the burden across all four players.
The weather in Delhi is hot, with high humidity, and it is expected that the matches, which could stretch to five sets, will be demanding.
We must take that into account.
I'd like to spread it out according to the weather
and according to how it's going, said Navrátil at the Czech team's training session today at the Raja Kumar Khanna Centre.
Team number one and world number forty Jiří Veselý is expected to take part in both the Friday and Sunday singles.
Lukáš Rosol and Radek Štěpánek will probably take it in turns as the team number two.
I would like almost all of them to be involved.
I have an idea in my head, but I won't talk about it now, said the captain.
Another certainty in the Czech line-up should be Štěpánek's participation in the Saturday doubles.
The only question is who will line up alongside the experienced doubles player, who has an 18:4 record in doubles in the Davis Cup.
It probably won't be Veselý.
The remaining options are with Rosol or Adam Pavlásek.
I really don't know who he'll play with and what it'll look like," said Navrátil.
He said that he would decide according to how the singles develop.
One option could be Pavlásek, who provided for a surprise win in the 1st round against the Australians.
"He's decent in doubles," said Navrátil.
It worked for me against Australia, and if I play, I'd like to give the same performance that I did there from the second set onwards.
"I'm glad for the experience and I'd like to score a point," said Pavlásek.
The home team will put Yuki Bhambri (125th in the ATP rankings), who won the Challenger tournament in Shanghaj last week, where he beat players ranked in the 300s and 400s, into the singles.
The number two will be Somdev Devvarman (164th).
Both players are on the Challenger tour and ours have ATP experience, but we've seen many times that rankings don't play a decisive role in the Davis Cup.
"What decides are momentary form and the weather," said Navrátil.
Friday's opening singles rubbers start at 06:30 CEST and may last longer due to the weather.
Forecasts say that it will rain and the court is not covered.
However, it will be possible to play under floodlights.
They've sorted it out now and the lights have about two thousand lux, which is plenty.
"It should be possible to play it to a finish under lights," said Navrátil.
Opponents of 'marshmallow' flats celebrate.
Controversial building halted.
Investor Praga Progetti e Investimenti considers the ruling to be unlawful and will appeal.
Hundreds of people protested against the building, which was to be built in the close vicinity of the Convent of St. Agnes , in front of the Prague 1 Municipal Authority. A petition was also submitted.
In its ruling the municipal authority stated that there was a breach of the Building Act, as not all mandatory aspects of the planning decision were observed.
According to the ruling, "The planning decision in question does not contain several mandatory requirements, for example type of land, distance from neighbouring buildings, sufficiently clear, comprehensible description of the shape of the building and delineation of the area affected by construction."
The municipal authority also considers the fact that some documents submitted for the decision were issued for the documentation originally discussed, which, however, changed, to be unlawful.
These include, for example, the opinion of environmental bodies.
Part of the building was to be built on land belonging to the National Gallery, whose permission the investor had not, however, obtained.
It follows from official material submitted that the owner of the land only gave its consent to the project material for the planning process, and not to the location of the building on its land, wrote the construction office.
According to Francesco Augusto Razetto from the investment company, the construction office did not take into account a ruling by its superior body, the Ministry for Regional Development, according to which the deadline for the start of a survey had already expired.
It was, in any case, a scandalous procedure.
"We have been preparing this project for seventeen years, we observe all laws of the Czech Republic and respect all authorities and institutions concerned," said Razetto in a press release.
The project, nicknamed the marshmallow due to the facade colour allegedly proposed, has provoked strong emotions in Prague.
Previously, hundreds of people had gathered to protest against the building.
Associations and inhabitants of nearby houses objected to the fact that some permits had been issued years ago for a building that looked different.
They also criticised the unsuitability of the building for the historic centre of Prague and the immediate vicinity of the Convent of St. Agnes.
The building was designed by Zdeněk Fránek, who changed the project several times.
The original form of the project from 2008, which included a glass facade, was rejected by the Ministry of Culture based on the opinion of the National Heritage Institute (NHI), which also cancelled a permit issued by the Prague Heritage Association.
However, the NHI and the heritage department at the municipal authority approved a new project by Praga Progetti e Investimenti featuring windows in the shape of faces, and it was on this basis that planning permission was issued.
The architect rejected complaints made by opponents, saying that he had never considered a pink facade, which gave the project its nickname after the pink and white confectionary.
Czech politician gives migrants a lift
Hungarians put them all in prison.
Berg went to Hungary to give refugees humanitarian aid.
On the way he and his companions picked up three Syrian refugees, whom he allegedly wanted to give a lift for half a kilometre.
At the time it wasn't yet a criminal offence, he claimed to Lidové noviny.
We knew that the police wouldn't prosecute us for this.
But when they stopped us, we were surprised when they arrested us and remanded us in custody in Szeged, he said.
The politician eventually spent nine hours in a cell.
He says that the police behaved properly, but there were communication problems because their English wasn't very good.
However, he says that the prison was miserable.
For example, 15 Syrian refugees were crammed in a cell measuring about three by four metres.
These included a two year-old boy and a four year-old girl.
They had already been in the cell for a day and due to the language barrier didn't know what was going to happen to them, said Berg.
What can no longer be confiscated?
Ask the president of the Chamber of Executors of the Czech Republic.
From 9.30 a.m. on Friday 18 September readers will be able to ask questions to President of the Chamber of Executors of the Czech Republic, Pavla Fučíková, in an online chat.
Readers can ask Ms. Fučíková about changes to the Execution Act valid from 1 September 2015 and other matters relating to executions or executors.
December allowance of 600 crowns to pensioners under threat
"It is the justice of equal stomachs, it has nothing to do with human justice," said TOP 09 deputy chairman Miroslav Kalousek, who emphasised the principle of deservedness.
ODS parliamentary party leader Zbyněk Stanjura noted that, while the one-off payment sounded good, in the long-term it would be better if it were part of the standard adjustment, as it would then be felt in years ahead.
"We have space to find a mechanism to set it up," stated Stanjura,
who supported the original proposal of Minister Michaela Marksová (ČSSD), according to which adjustment beyond the requirements of the law was to take place next year.
Marksová defended the additional amount, arguing that it would improve the social situation of pensioners, which she says is not a good one.
Marksová stated that higher adjustment next year would mean an impact of 5.5 billion crowns on the budget, with ministers fighting over every hundred million.
Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka (ČSSD) reminded the right-wing parties that in the past they had lowered the adjustment rate.
Miroslav Opálka (KSČM) highlighted the fact that the proposal does not discuss the reduction of actual pensions in 2016 and later.
The right-wing parties' veto significantly complicates payment in December and will maybe even prevent it, he said.
The ČSSD's parliamentary party leader Roman Sklenák therefore proposed the shortening of the deadline for the committee discussion of the standard to ten or twenty days; this, too, was blocked by the right-wing parties.
However, the committee will have one month, rather than the usual two, for the discussion.
The bonus should cost the state a total of 1.73 billion crowns.
Money is to be chiefly taken from the budgets of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
Next year pensions should rise by an average of approximately one hundred crowns.
According to this amendment to pension law, the sum is to be received by people who are entitled to a pension, or part thereof, in December.
It would also be available to those whose entitlement to a pension expired in December, before its payment.
They would have to apply for the payment in writing, no later than by the end of next year.
Pensions in the Czech Republic are regularly adjusted in January by the amount of the rise in prices and a third of the rise in actual salaries.
This year, pensions correspond to 41.5 percent of gross salaries, and next year this would be 40.5 percent.
According to the state's closing account, last year the state spent 314.7 billion crowns on old-age pensions, a year-on-year increase of approximately 5.5 billion crowns.
Expenditure on old-age pensions represented 26 percent of all budget expenditure and 46 percent of all expenditure required by law.
According to data contained in the state closing account, the average full old-age pension last year grew by 104 crowns to 10,714 crowns.
The Czech Social Security Administration paid out 2.4 million full old-age pensions and around 17,000 pro-rata pensions.
Yakunin abandons plans for a political career, will devote himself to science.
According to Russian media, the billionaire was virtually assured of a Senate seat.
He was to represent the western Kaliningrad Oblast, whose governor, Nikolay Tsukanov, defended his mandate as the candidate for ruling party United Russia in Sunday's elections, in the Russian Federation Council.
According to Russian law, senators are not elected by the public, but are chosen by the governor from three candidates, whose names are announced before gubernatorial elections.
The governor then chooses the candidates themselves after the elections.
One complication for Yakunin was the fact that he has not lived in the Kaliningrad Oblast for twenty years, as required by law.
The Kremlin had, though, granted Yakunin an exemption on the grounds that he was an extraordinary and authorised plenipotentiary to whom the legal requirement for long-term residency did not apply.
Shooting of the Czech comedy Teorie tygra (Theory of the Tiger) has concluded
The final straw for the resolution of the main character is the voluntary death of his father-in-law, who has lost strength and patience.
The grandmother (Iva Janžurová) made the decisions on the grandfather's life, old age and funeral.
Jan can see that he is going the same way with his wife Olga (Eliška Balzerová).
He remembers that once he had his own will and dreams, and wants to live a free, dignified life.
He wants to take back control over his life - and his solution is to run away from the one he has, says Slavík about the story.
Bajgar wanted to use the comedy form to capture a certain type of relationship, in which one of the partners doesn't live a totally free life.
Bajgar says that it was clear from the start that Bartoška, with whom he had previously worked on the series Neviditelní, would have the main role.
Despite this, he says that the actor, who was appearing in front of the cameras after a long break caused due to convalescence from a serious illness, surprised him.
We agreed on this three years ago.
I let him read the script and he said that he liked the sadness of it.
And he surprised me by saying that he was a closet athlete.
In the past he would always ask where he would sit before filming the next scene.
Back then he would cycle, climb up rocks, and even hike up hills -
all of this in record tropical temperatures, adds the director.
According to Bartoška, women marry tigers so that over time they can make rabbits out of them.
They give them some feed, then immediately close the door so that they don't think of playing the tiger outside the rabbit hutch.
That's what we're trying to convey in our film, says the actor.
His wife, who may come across to audiences as a slightly negative character, is played by Eliška Balzerová.
She isn't only a negative character.
She's also good-natured, intelligent, empathetic and has good intentions.
At the same time she's a usurper and wants to cook him to death, adds Bajgar.
The film tells the parallel story of Jan's married daughters Olinka and Alenka (Táňa Vilhelmová and Pavla Beretová) and sons-in-law Erik and Pepík (Jiří Havelka and Jakub Kohák).
The film is produced by Petr Erben from Logline Production and co-produced by Czech Television and Radio and Slovak Television.
Google promises millions of dollars in aid for refugees in Europe
American Internet company Google has pledged up to 5.5 million dollars (132.6 million crowns) in further aid to organisations helping the thousands of refugees streaming into Europe.
The announcement was made on Tuesday by Google.org, the charity offshoot of the Internet company.
Azerbaijan cancels part of Telička's visit due to criticism of human rights breaches
Czech European MP Pavel Telička (ANO) has postponed his journey to Baku on Thursday after the Azerbaijan authorities today cancelled the official part of his visit.
According to Telička, Baku did this following last week's resolution of the European Parliament criticising human rights breaches, of which Telička was a co-author.
The Azerbaijan government's decision means that Telička will not have the opportunity to talk to official partners or visit political prisoners, which depends on the consent of the authorities, his Brussels office explained in a press release.
Telička had wanted to use the trip, planned several months in advance, to meet parliamentary leaders and representatives of the executive, as well as representatives of the democratic opposition, dissidents and political prisoners, stated the text sent to the Czech Press Office.
The European Parliament resolution condemns the "unprecedented repression against civil society in Azerbaijan".
The resolution calls on European leaders to consider sanctions against all politicians, officials and judges involved in political persecution.
The resolution was passed shortly after the recent sentencing of opposition journalist Khadija Ismayilova, who campaigned against corruption in government.
Russia doesn't rule out building air base in Syria.
On a visit to Novosibirsk, Bogdanovsky did not rule out Russia building an air base in Syria in the future.
We do not have any such plans at this point in time.
However, nothing is ruled out, he stated.
Russia has already operated a sea base in Tartus for years, which it so far used as more of a servicing and logistics centre.
However, according to reports in the Russian press, supplies of Russian arms and military material have increased since the beginning of August.
According to Moscow these are weapons shipments deriving from valid trade agreements.
The Pentagon claims that the Russians are planning to set up an air base by the town of Lakatiya, which is, for the time being, a bastion of support for Syrian president Bashar Assad.
However, Washington isn't entirely clear about Russia's specific military intentions in Syria, agree American commentators.
US Secretary of State John Kerry discussed the situation in Syria on Monday with his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov. It was their third telephone conversation in the last ten days.
Next week Israeli premier Binyamin Netanyahu will visit Moscow to convey his country's concern about the stockpiling of a Russian arsenal close to the Israeli border.
White House spokesman Josh Earnest called Moscow's support for Assad as a lost bet.
He stated that Russia's goals in Syria are unclear
and that Russia had made Syria a satellite state.
This may mean that President Vladimir Putin is pursuing a more long-term goal, the nature of which was not, according to Earnest, clear.
According to speculation today, the war in Syria may be the main topic of Putin's speech to the upcoming meeting of the United Nations General Assembly in New York.
On the other hand, the Russian leader apparently does not intend to mention the situation in the Donbass, Ukraine at all.
According to today's report in The New York Times, the American government doesn't rule out President Barack Obama meeting with the Russian president during the UN session.
There is, however, a difference of opinion among White House advisers.
Referring to the words of Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, the TASS agency today wrote that Putin's schedule for his stay in New York does not currently include a meeting with Obama.
Use sesame oil for a gall-bladder diet - hemp oil helps to strengthen immunity.
A good way to increase the transfer of beneficial unsaturated fatty acids from these fruits is to use extra virgin oils.
The retention of all healthy substances in the oil during cold-pressing from seeds
means that these oils are also suitable as a component of healthy diet, including for gall bladders.
Some extra virgin oils are suitable for the prevention of cardiovascular disease
which, according to the Czech Institute of Health Information and Statistics, is the long-term most common cause of death in the Czech Republic.
Inflammation of the gall bladder mainly affects women, but sesame oil helps.
If you're a lover of Asian cuisine, sesame oil, an important part of original Asian recipes, shouldn't be missing from your pantry.
Unlike the majority of other oils, it can be used in the preparation of hot dishes and has a number of effects that are beneficial to one's health.
It often occurs in gall-bladder diets.
Sesame oil contains essential fatty acids that help prevent gallstones.
90% of gallstones are caused by inflammation of the gall bladder, a problem that affects women three times more than it does men.
Gall-bladder issues generally affect people who are overweight, don't take part in sport and consume a lot of animal fats.
Sesame oil is also a very good component of a liver diet, which is very similar to a gall bladder one.
To enjoy the full benefits of consuming sesame oil, be careful about which exotic foodstuffs you buy.
Products from Asia often use excessively roasted seeds, which usually have a stronger taste.
In the words of Ladislav Hačecký, CEO of Bohemia Olej from Kraslice near Sokolov, a producer of cold-pressed bio virgin oil, oils prepared in this way lose their effective substances.
The company has recently started producing sesame oil and uses only non-roasted white sesame seeds.
Our seed press presses 8 kilos of sesame seeds per hour.
Our products are mechanically pressed at a temperature not exceeding 40 degrees and thus meet the conditions for extra virgin oil.
Higher temperatures would entail a loss of nutritious substances.
Sunflower oil has benefits for those suffering from heart and circulatory disease.
The most popular oil in the Czech Republic is sunflower oil.
A study conducted by Jarmila Hamerská (Masarykova univerzita, Brno) found that 43% of respondents preferred sunflower oil when cooking.
Sunflower is not, however, suitable for cooking, as it starts to overheat at 180 °C.
It's better for e.g. seasoning salads and as part of controlled diet, where it helps prevent cardiovascular disease,
as it contains a high proportion of omega-6 non-saturated fatty acids, which reduce cholesterol the most out of all fatty acids.
If you have heart problems, take care about the amount of fat and calories you consume.
For example, one teaspoonful of sunflower oil contains 62 calories, and one teaspoonful of rapeseed oil contains 99 calories.
As far as energy values are concerned, it is important to realise that natural foodstuffs containing nutritious substances are much better than what are known as empty calories,
which you will find in industrially processed products.
We therefore recommend using extra virgin oils.
Like sesame oil and hemp oil, sunflower oil has a lifespan of nine months.
Lifespan can be extended through fridge storage.
Old oil can mainly be recognised from its bitter taste.
On the other hand, cloudiness at the bottom is not a defect;
it's a sign that the product has not been chemically refined.
Hemp oil contains the highest quantity of healthy acids.
Their extremely high omega-3 and omega-6 unsaturated fatty acid content means that seeds of properly cultivated hemp are one of the so-called superfoods
and hemp oil is therefore regarded as the healthiest vegetable oil.
The human body cannot produce these essential fatty acids by itself and must be absorbed from food.
The consumption of omega-3 fatty acid is of particular importance.
A scientific study published in the European Journal of Clinical Science proved that daily intake of this substance is insufficient.
Males in France and Greece consume 0.6 grammes per day, while males in Iceland consume 2.5 grammes per day.
The recommended daily allowance is 1-4 grammes.
It is recommended to include hemp as a subsidiary part of your diet for the strengthening of immunity and the healing of wounds.
Hemp oil has anti-inflammatory effects and is an essential component of cell membranes.
Hemp oil does not contain any psychoactive substances.
Bohemia Olej sells 500 l of oil per year, confirming its
appeal to consumers.
Users often consume one teaspoonful on an empty stomach in the morning.
While it doesn't have a strong taste, hemp oil strengthens immunity, says Daniel Vlček from Bohemia Olej.
According to statistics, America is the most passionate nation about grilling,
with 1.4 grills per household.
A wide variety of grilling competitions take place all over the world, only confirming the success of this culinary discipline.
The Czechs have nothing to be ashamed of here either.
Based on consumer surveys of the Czech market, only 4% of people have never grilled.
The majority grill several times a year.
For grilling to work, preparation is important - ideally meat should be marinaded for several hours before cooking.
Which oil is the most suitable for this, while retaining healthy substances during grilling?
Generally one shouldn't use too much fat during the grilling itself.
Experts agree that the majority of oils start to lose their taste at high temperatures,
meaning that healthy extra virgin oils lose the body of the healthy substances that we otherwise gain when consuming oil from foods prepared at lower temperatures.
However, this doesn't mean that extra virgin oils lose their value when grilled.
Grape oil for grilling, health and beauty
When you say 'meat', the experts from Bohemia Olej from Kraslice near Sokolov think of grape oil.
It's a great supplement to meat and fish.
In cooking it distinguishes itself with its unique ability to enhance the flavour of food.
Due its high combustion point of 216 °C it's also suitable for frying and grilling.
In the words of Daniel Vlček from Bohemia Olej, one of the few Czech companies to produce grape oil, this high does combustion point does not, however, mean that it loses its essential substances - one of the few oils to do so.
Experts agree that grape oil is fifty times more effective than vitamin E and twenty times more effective than vitamin C.
It further contains a large quantity of linoliv acid and is thus effective in the fight against cholesterol.
Grape oil is also an important source of unsaturated fatty acids, vitamins and minerals.
The high quantities of these substances helps reduce high blood pressure, increases metabolism and has positive effects on the kidneys.
The consumption of grape oil also helps increase external beauty, improving skin elasticity, helping to fight acne and in the care of dry, brittle hair.
Chefs highly praise the use of grape oil in cooking.
Not only is it suitable for the preparation of cold dishes, for example the seasoning of salads, it can also be used for hot dishes.
When grilling it can be used in two ways, for marination and grilling itself.
The marination of meat and fish preserves their juiciness.
Three components are required in the preparation of marinades: oil, acidity and seasoning.
Acidity is added through the use of e.g. apple vinegar, which helps to soften the meat.
Seasoning gives the meat taste and oil conserves it and gives it the right bite, advises Daniel Vlček.
He adds that grape oil is ideal for marination because it is one of the few oils that penetrates red meat.
So your marinaded meat or fish is ready for grilling - what next?
Extra virgin oils are distinguished by the fact that only a few drops are required for the preparation of foods.
The same applies to grilling.
Some oils must not be used for this type of food preparation.
These include linseed, hemp and rapeseed oil, which shouldn't be heated at all.
Sprinkle the grate with oil before grilling to prevent the burning of food.
Side orders are also an essential part of grilling.
Practically anything goes with grilled meat and fish - grilled vegetables, roasted bread, light vegetable salad and many more.
The chefs at Bohemia Olej recommend, for example, Hot Summer salad.
For this, you need: • 1 peach • 1 bunch of rocket • 1 cupful chopped cucumber • 1 cup mixed lettuce leaves • 3 tablespoonfuls of grape oil
Put the torn rocket, chopped cucumber and large chunks of peach into a salad bowl.
Add salt and pepper to taste, as well as ground chili and soy sauce if desired.
Add a few drops of grape oil to finish.
Sprinkle with finely chopped almonds for an exceptional taste.
Multiple sclerosis: it's not just about the medication, but also about the patient's will to fight.
Multiple sclerosis is a complicated disease and people with this diagnosis need consultation from a number of specialists: neurologists, physiotherapists, ergotherapists, urologists, ophthalmologists, psychologists, psychiatrists and many more.
It is not, however, just about therapeutic treatment - for example, women with multiple sclerosis also need consultation if they decide to have children, as the care of these patients also includes consultation in social law, recommendations for the modification of dwellings, etc.
Despite this, all of the above is not enough: the development of the disease can be fundamentally affected by the patient themselves.
The more actively they fight the disease, the longer they can work and not have to fundamentally change their lifestyle.
As highlighted by doctors, passivity in patients leaves room for the activity of the disease.
For example, it has been proved that regular movement significantly delays the time when the patient requires a compensatory aid, for example a walking-stick.
It is important for patients and those around them to not believe various myths, for example that the disease will automatically lead to them being confined to a wheelchair.
This is one of the reasons behind the creation of the Dej si šanci ('give yourself a chance', www.bezmytu.cz) website, which is supported by the ongoing Dej si šanci media campaign.
The most important person in the treatment of a patient with multiple sclerosis is the neurologist.
The saying that the earlier you start to treat the illness, the more the doctor can influence something, doubly applies to multiple sclerosis.
This is due to the fact that we have medicines that treat multiple sclerosis in its inflammatory stage, when the process of neurodegeneration is not yet so strong.
The earlier we intervene, the greater the hope that we can stop the disease and postpone invalidisation, explains MUDr. Eva Medová from the Neurological Clinic of the General Faculty Hospital in Prague.
Physiotherapy, which most often deals with the weakening of the lower limbs and balance disorders, is also highly important for those with multiple sclerosis.
Patients are treated according to their individual needs: to maintain condition, improve walking, strengthen the pelvic floor, alleviate swallowing disorders or improve coordination.
"It really is individual and depends on the specific difficulties being suffered by the patient," says MUDr. Martina Kövári, senior consultant at the Physiotherapy and Physical Medicine Clinic of the Faculty Hospital in Motol.
While people with multiple sclerosis suffer from the same illness, it manifests itself differently in everyone.
While physiotherapy does not stop the illness, it always helps to alleviate its symptoms.
Movement also strengthens the immune system, which is desirable in the case of multiple sclerosis.
A further positive aspect of regular exercise is the fact that patients can check what all they can do, strengthening their self-confidence.
"Exercise also releases endorphins, which help you feel good," notes PhDr. Kamila Řasová from the Physiotherapy Clinic of the Královské Vinohrady Faculty Hospital.
Influencing the physical aspect has an effect on the limbic system, which is responsible for emotions.
It also has a direct effect on the patient's mental state and immune processes, stabilising the disease, she adds.
"Previously, these patients would save their energy, but today we know that they need targeted exercise," says Prof. PaedDr. Pavel Kolář, head of the Physiotherapy and Physical Medicine Clinic of the Faculty Hospital in Motol.
The goal of physiotherapy is for the patient to stay self-sufficient for as long as possible, including at work.
Physiotherapists therefore cooperate with ergotherapists to ensure that every patient receives made-to-measure compensatory aids.
Many patients also need the care of a psychologist or psychiatrist.
They are in a difficult life situation.
Most people are shaken when a serious illness enters their life.
They experience shock, panic, fear.
They must respond to a considerable burden - the loss of their health.
When our sole aches in this way we should talk to someone and not take the whole burden on ourselves.
"I work with them in a way that they eventually reach the conclusion that they can still live a full life, even with a handicap, and that multiple sclerosis doesn't mean the end of their life," says psychotherapist Renata Malinová-Schubertová from the Neurological Clinic of the General Faculty Hospital in Prague.
Airbuses couldn't fly without Prague manufacturer Latecoere
Aviation manufacturing is synonymous with precision and advanced technology.
New aeroplanes are full of titanium and light or heavy composite materials that can't be produced and processed by just anybody.
Nevertheless, alongside the superprecise, computer-guided machine tools and autoclaves for the creation of composites, you can also encounter something as ordinary as apricot seeds.
Inside the drum, reminiscent of a candyfloss pot, a mass of apricot seeds are used to wear down sheet-metal parts fresh off the milling machine.
"We haven't found any better solution," smiles Ivan Dubský, CEO of aviation doors manufacturer Latecoere Czech Republic.
Previously known as Letov, the company produces complete door systems for the Airbus A320 at its complex in the Letňany district of Prague.
It is the only company in the world to supply doors for the Brazilian Embraer 170 model.
Passengers walk through these doors, part of which is produced in Prague, to enter first and higher classes on the upper decks of the Airbus A380, the largest passenger plane in the world.
Doors full of composite materials are also are also assembled here for the new Boeing 787 Dreamliner.
Here, precision is the watchword.
For example, the company has torque wrenches adjusted twice per year.
Should a record of an inspection be absent from the yellow label, the company would have some explaining to do from the Airbus or Boeing auditors, who pay the company regular visits to ensure that doors are being produced in accordance with the agreed rules.
However, advanced technology has not yet entirely replaced human senses.
There are 1,500 rivets on a single Airbus A320 door.
These must be attached manually but riveters.
It takes them two days.
They can recognise, even from the sound of a falling hammer, whether a rivet has been correctly hammered.
The tolerance limits within which they operate are minimal.
A rivet can rise above the aeroplane surface by 0-0.13 millimetres.
That is about twice the thickness of a human hair.
Inspections utilise a well-trained sense of touch.
When an inspector runs their finger along a row of rivets, they recognise when one is outside the tolerance limit.
They then get out a precise deviation gauge.
Before 1989 Letov produced the L-39 military practice plane.
However, by 1991 it wasn't producing any.
The company had to quickly find new customers.
Back then it started working with European aviation producer Airbus.
It won a tender for the supply of emergency doors for the A321 model.
Approaches to Boeing were not so successful.
"At the time we were too small a firm that didn't have enough money for investment or to be able to guarantee Boeing the long-term stability of supply," remembers Dubský.
The doors to the American producer would have stayed closed had Letov not caught the attention pf the French Latecoere group at the International Air Transport Association conference in Prague in 1999.
I was talking about our cooperation with Airbus.
The next day we started negotiations with the French, says Dubský.
A year later, Latecoere bought the Czech company, and with a major company came new orders.
As as early as 2000 the company started produced door parts for the A320.
Three years later, they also started producing doors for the upper deck of the A380.
In 2006 the company built a new production hall for the processing of composites for orders for the Boeing Dreamliner.
Without Latecoere we wouldn't have won those big orders ourselves.
Maybe we'd have been making parts or small components.
Our partners want a twenty- to thirty-year guarantee for goods supplied, explains Dubský.
Last year the Czech Latecoere achieved turnover of over 2.9 billion crowns and an after-tax profit of 147 million crowns.
Having an exclusive status among suppliers to aviation manufacturers comes at a price.
Since 2000, Latecoere has invested 1.5 billion crowns in the Prague company.
The company must have quality certificates, certification for 1270 special production processes and qualification certificates for key employees.
Without these, the company would not be able to manufacture aeroplane doors.
According to Dubský, gaining certification that production processes meet clients' requirements and maintain them through repeated inspections costs millions of crowns.
Production processes change every year,
becoming every more precise and stringent.
We have to give employees additional training, upgrade equipment and have the entire process re-certified, adds Dubský.
The company is currently completing preparations for a metal-plating process using zinc and nickel, rather than cadmium, which is harmful to human health.
Although they received the assignment from the manufacturer, they then had to adapt their technology to the equipment and chemicals used in Prague.
The Boeing people come and verify the concept of the entire production line.
Then we produce their goods.
They also inspect our laboratory.
They test one set of samples themselves in their own laboratory then compare the results with ours, says Dubský, describing the inspection process used by their clients.
The Prague company's reward for this are exclusive, long-term contracts.
The production of Embraer planes today stands and falls with the Prague plant,
which produces half of its total volume of doors.
Replacing the Czech branch of Latecoere would be very complicated, if not impossible, for the Brazilian or European producer.
However, this does not mean that they can name their price for doors.
An integral part of the contract is the price curve.
This states how much doors will cost per ten, fifty and one hundred pieces produced.
The piece price falls to a certain limit value.
We must fit into this price equation.
If not, we'll be losing money, says Dubský.
Half of the hall where the electrical boxes for the Airbus A400 M military plane are being completed is so far empty.
It is, however, a symbol of the future.
Behind the partition they are building a new semi-robotic production line for the riveting and assembly of doors for the new A320 Neo model.
This will lead to faster, more precise riveting.
"This is a growing trend in aviation riveting," adds Dubský.
The future production has its sales secured.
Airbus has announced that airlines have so far ordered 3,270 of the the A320 model.
Only a few metres away they are building a production line for the complete assembly of doors for the upper deck of the A380.
This was a strategic decision of our parent company.
The goal is to shorten the production time and lower costs.
The full assembly process could start within two years, says Dubský.
Before this, however, the company must undergo qualificatory tests for e.g. the assembly of some electrical and electronic equipment for doors intended for the largest Airbus.
The company is relying on the further development of production from composite materials.
Apart from Boeing, it should also participate in the new Airbus A350 programme, which will compete with the American Dreamliner.
"It's a massive boost to the company when it can produce both metal and composite materials," says Dubský proudly.
However, Latecoere is reaching the limit of its production capacity in the Czech Republic.
There is no more space in the Letov complex where it is based.
Before it was taken over by its French parent company, it had 180 employees.
Now it has 800 employees, and might have a hundred more within three years.
As long as Airbus and Boeing will compete over how many hundreds of new aeroplanes are ordered by airlines every year, Latecoere won't have to worry about work.
Despite having orders for several years to come, Latecoere's parent company was facing bankruptcy.
The French group didn't have enough money to cover its September loan payments.
In the end, Latecoere was able to come to an agreement with its main creditors,
who exchanged part of their loans for shares at the end of August.
Creditors gained a share of 37.4 percent in the company through a 57.4 million EUR increase in capital.
Company debt was reduced by two thirds, equal to 180 million EUR.
The second part of the financial remedy came at the beginning of September,
when the company distributed new shares to the value of 222.9 million EUR among existing shareholders.
The company thus increased its base capital by a total 280 million EUR.
The entire group benefits from the growing production of Airbus and Boeing, who between them have a 85 percent market share.
It anticipates an average annual rise of four percent in orders up to 2017.
Its order book contains orders worth 2.6 billion EUR, corresponding to four years' worth of production.
The French media has said that Latecoere can finally breathe easy after being on a drip-feed for years.
The Czech plant in Letňany is a major one for the group,
contributing 16 percent of its income.
It is the group's largest branch abroad by number of employees.
MPs support greater state share in coal fees
A change in fees for the mining of minerals is to bring 427 million crowns more into state coffers than was the case in 2013.
According to the government, the measure will have a neutral effect on the income of municipalities as fees will be higher.
In the year before last, municipalities gained approx. 450 million crowns and the state treasury 150 million crowns.
Municipalities gained around 200 million crowns and the state 66 million crowns from lignite mining.
The amendment also anticipates the increase in payments from extraction areas with mining permits to one thousand crowns per hectare per year.
The entirety of income generated from these payment shall remain with the municipalities.
Minister for Industry Jan Mládek (ČSSD) told MPs that, thanks to this, municipalities will receive 100 million crowns per year, as opposed to the previous figure of 14 million crowns.
The amount of mining fees will no longer be determined by law, but stipulated by the government through decrees.
Payments will be calculated as the product of the quantity of minerals mined and rates for individual types of mineral.
According to the government, the reason for the change is, among others, the option of reacting flexibly to the current economic situation.
However, MP Marek Benda (ODS) warned that the setting of fees by government decree may not be in accordance with the constitution.
Minister Mládek responded saying that this would not be a tax, as in this case the government is making minerals - which are state property - subject to a fee.
Fees are received by the municipalities whose territory is affected by mining.
In the case of deep coal mining, three-quarters of the money is received by municipalities and one quarter by the state.
The same proportions shall apply to the extraction of radioactive rocks.
Part of the money collected by the state from fees shall be tied to a single purpose.
For example, 28 percent must be directed towards the remedying of damage following mining or the funding of the mine rescue service.
The proposal was today criticised by opposition MPs, who chiefly claimed that it would harm both municipalities and regional governments.
For example, Michal Kučera (TOP 09 a Starostové) warned that mining companies would no longer want to sponsor municipalities as before, as they would have to pay higher fees directly into state coffers.
"You can't asset-strip some of the poorest regions just so that the Finance Minister can improve his budget," said David Kádner (Úsvit), whose constituency is in the Ústí nad Labem Region
Communist MP Hana Aulická also warned of increased unemployment in the Most area.
Kádner and Aulická unsuccessfully proposed the rejection of the amendment, and Kučera wanted to return it to the government for revision.
The explanatory report states that, according to extraction companies, increases in fees would not be transmitted to coal prices as more than 90 percent of these are agreed on a long-term basis.
The chief consumers, power stations, would not, therefore, feel an increase in prices.
"On the other hand, though, this fact increases the risk that extraction organisations will compensate for increased payments with efforts to reduce their operating costs, which would primarily mean a reduction in the number of employees," admits the government.
However, it also stated that a fee increase would be bearable in terms of employment.
According to Milan Urban (ČSSD), who tabled the amendment, a key issue is for MPs to know the conclusions reached regarding the updated energy concept and, chiefly, the government's decision on coal extraction limits before passing the law.
He emphasised that, were coal to be mined beyond the limits, it would have an impact on yields for both the state and municipalities.
Urban does not agree with Mládek on the fact that the decision on the breaking of the limit at the Československé armády mine should only be taken after 2020.
He said that limits at the Československé armády mine should be broken due to social reasons, the national economy and the Czech energy sector.
Eva looked forward to having twins, despite uncertain prospects for the future.
Eva experienced hardship even while she was pregnant with Vítek, who is now seven years old.
Vítek's father had left her, leaving her to prepare for the baby on her own.
I came to terms with the situation relatively quickly - I was really looking forward to the baby and looked for the positives.
I tried not to bother myself with uncertainty and the fact that I'd be bringing the baby up on my own.
And I definitely had the hope that we wouldn't be on our own for long, says Eva, remembering her first pregnancy.
Even back then, on the Internet she met Vašek, who was older than her and who she started to talk about her favourite films with.
Vašek even took Eva and Vítek home from the maternity hospital, but wasn't in too much of a rush to assume the role of stepfather.
"He then took a back seat for a while," says Eva in documentary series Čtyři v tom 3.
The theme of the third season of the Czech television series having another go at finding happiness.
Eva coped with caring for Vítek and supporting the family through part-time work and a lot of help from her mother and aunt.
In the end, even the prospect of responsibility for someone else's child didn't spoil Vašek's affection for Eva.
They finally became a couple around Vítek's second birthday, and Vítek now sees Vašek as his father, and calls him this, too.
Even though Vašek already has two adult daughters, he himself says that he is enjoying fatherhood at sixty, and can also devote more time to children.
Since then, Vítek has been joined by two-year old Leontýna, and even twins.
"Vašek has fitted right in with our family, maybe because my mother has never interfered in my relationships much," smiles Eva.
Not much space?
At least we're close to one another.
Twins Ema and Ela were born by Caesarean section after Eva was diagnosed with cholestasis in the closing stages of her pregnancy.
Cholestasis is a disorder in the production and activity of bile acids, which then occur in excessive amounts in the blood of the pregnant woman and manifests itself in itchiness.
The illness is dangerous to the unborn foetus, which is at risk of premature birth and death. It usually disappears of its own accord in the mother following birth.
Luckily for Eva and Vašek, Ema and Ela were born healthy, even though she was only in her 36th week.
Little Ema was placed in an incubator on an intermediary ward where Vašek's niece worked, who was able to take care of her and see that she was accommodated.
Ela was bigger and I had her by my side as soon as I was taken from intensive care to my room, says Eva about the difficult time after the birth.
She spent twenty days in the maternity hospital until the doctors discharged the babies, who had reached the weight of two kilos.
Eva didn't enjoy the wait in hospital.
"I was going crazy being away from my husband and children," says the mother of four, remembering the difficult moments on the postpartum ward.
She and her husband had considered filing a complaint due to the insensitive manner of one doctor.
In the end that didn't happen and the doctors discharged Eva and the twins.
This story of four pregnancies and births will be broadcast on ČT1 at 9.45 p.m. on Tuesday evening.
This large family knows how to economise.
They live together in a small house not far from Prague, where had to make do with an electrical two-ring stove and modest conditions.
While the house hasn't got bigger, Vašek made Eva happy by installing a gas cooker so that it's easier to cook for six people.
If the worst comes to the worst, we can share the taxi.
Eva is convinced that the children see the comfort of family life and the pleasant atmosphere, and not the size or shabbiness of the house.
For now we're coping quite well, better than we'd expected.
While it's harder to hide untidiness in such a small space and we sometimes step over the rolling babies, at least we're all close to one another, laughs Eva, who can see the positive side of any situation.
As Vašek's work as a lighting technician in film doesn't guarantee a regular income,
he sometimes goes on the streets of Prague as a taxi driver.
Even at sixty, he himself says that he is physically managing to support the family and children - but how long will this be the case?
"I realise that, due to the age gap, one day it'll be me who has to support the family," admits Eva honestly when asked about the future.
She would like to return to paid work, but is more attracted by the possibility of starting her own business.
I've got four children, I'm not exactly hot property for employers.
If the worst comes to the worst, we can share the taxi, jokes the good-natured blonde.
Apple hit by the yo-yo effect.
It's all because of the displays.
A more powerful processor, higher-resolution camera, stronger casing and display screen that can discern different touch strengths are the advantages offered by the recently launched ninth-generation iPhones.
The last two listed have a negative impact on the dimensions and weight of 6s and 6s Plus iPhones.
Up until now the trend with Apple has been for every generation of iPhone to be lighter than the one before it.
The only exceptions to this were the third and fourth generations, whose weight was slightly more than that of preceding iPhones.
However, the two-gramme difference from previous models was truly negligible.
This is far from true for new iPhones.
Compared to last year's 6 and 6 Plus iPhones, the weight of the smaller model rose by 14 grammes and the larger by a whole 20 grammes.
On the one hand it's no wonder - last year's affair with phones bending in pockets caused Apple some considerable problems.
The new models' casing is made of tougher 7000 aluminium alloy, which also manifested itself in the weight.
However, the displays have a much greater impact.
In these new models Apple has used 3D Touch technology, which helps displays distinguish between the strength of touch.
This meant that displays had to be fitted with an extra layer of capacity sensors.
The weight of the screens of new iPhones thus more than doubled against preceding generations.
In the smaller iPhone it rose from 12 to 29 grammes, and in the larger one from 19 to 40 grammes.
In the iPhone 6s the display is the heaviest component used.
The full weight of this new model, a mere 143 grammes, is then reached through the stiffening casing, which affected all other components.
In the larger model, the largest component used is the battery, whose weight has not, however, increased against its predecessor.
Here, too, the greatest growth has been in the display.
The weight of the 5.5" iPhone 6s is thus 192 grammes.
The practicality of the new display technology will become apparent only through use.
Users will be able to try it our for the first time on Friday 25 September, when sale of the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus will begin in selected countries.
Have flakes been the breakfast of champions for tens of thousands of years?
Archaeologists in Grotta Paglicci, Italy have made a discovery that opens up interesting possibilities.
They have discovered traces of settlements of modern humans from various periods, including wall-paintings, remains of tools and so on.
However, at level 23A, which according to the tools found dates back 30 thousand years, researchers have found something that is strongly reminiscent of the remains of a breakfast buffet.
At the site they found traces of oat grains that apparently went through a production process similar to the oat flakes that are so popular today.
In this process, grains are first soaked, then dried, shelled, blanched and flattened.
Grains have been found in Paglicci cave that were evidently heated up or blanched, then ground between two millstones - this is at least indicated by traces of use found on two stones in the cave.
While researchers were not able to prove in their article for PNAS magazine that the complete flake production process took place in the cave, the resemblance is quite striking.
We also do not have any evidence of how the people ate the flakes, although the possibility that it would have been with some liquid and quite possibly also served warm, is entirely logical.
At the same time it is highly interesting evidence of how intensively people used cereals, even long before the rise of agriculture.
Thus if the oat flake interpretation is correct, the oldest flakes preceded agriculture by approximately twenty thousand years.
New stop announcement with the Brno Public Transport Comapny
So once again I listened to the announcements of the names of stops in the trolleybus: Hnusáčkova, Přízrak, Frázova, Spratecká.
For sure, the trolleybus was a bit noisier, so the male voice making the announcements was somewhat less easy to understand than before, when the stops were announced by a female voice.
The female voice is higher-pitched, so in the deeper noise of public transport it's easier to pick out than the deeper male voice.
While the public transport company argues that the voice was chosen by passengers themselves - I don't know which ones, they didn't ask me - they must have chosen it from studio recordings made in complete silence, which obviously sounded completely different than against the racket of a bus engine.
I've lived in Brno for quite a few decades now, so I know the correct names of all those stops off by heart and obviously I don't need these announcements, but people from other places who don't know their way around Brno, and at whom these announcements are mainly aimed, might be confused, and if they go to the final stop by mistake, they can claim that the stop they were meant to get off at wasn't announced.
Maybe they should run the selection process for an announcer again, this time with the addition of transport noise and the racket of a motor, in which the mutter of the bus loudspeaker almost gets lost.
Then I wouldn't have to listen to stops called Vodní Heršpice, Šmírova, or Ponorná in the screeching tram that I got onto at Komárov.
In my old age I don't think that my hearing got that much worse in the single day when they changed the announcer.
Before that day I understood the announcements quite well.
Good morning, comrade superintendent
Notes by a railway worker
Few people today know what the so-called complex checks were during the rule of the biggest, smartest political party.
Let me reminisce.
The bus was delayed.
I entered the dispatcher's office at the moment the radio announced that it was seven o'clock.
"You're lucky you didn't bump into the comrade superintendent, he got here a minute before you and he didn't look like he was in a great mood," noted the dispatcher while I was writing my name in the visitors' book.
Thanks, I'll be careful.
Write that I've going through the districts to review minor mechanical devices.
Can't do it - the checks are on today.
We're all crapping ourselves because of it, it's terrible.
What's it all about?
"You'll see," said the dispatcher, making a face.
You will next time, too.
I ran out to the corridor.
At that moment the doors to the superintendent's office opened and the superintendent appeared.
Buttoned-up, with a stony face and perfectly fitted uniform.
"Good morning, comrade superintendent," I greeted him respectfully, quickly doing up the two buttons of my uniform jacket.
"Good morning," he replied and I quickly ran up to the first floor, without noticing the cold, foreboding tone that the older man had replied in.
"You're just playing," I was welcomed by engineer Eva, an elderly lady for whom I had a lot of respect.
Apparently she'd even been the superintendent until she was removed by the comrades.
We've got checks on and you only just make it.
How many times had I asked what these complex checks were, but no-one wanted to talk about it.
Apparently they only happen once every three years, everyone has to attend them, and they're quite unpleasant.
At least for some.
Well, they said I'd see.
I pulled a file with periodic announcements out of a drawer. At that moment the phone rang.
"Holcman here, come to my office immediately," said the superintendent's voice.
What's his problem?
We met each other now and nothing..." I mumbled, but no-one answered, all of them lost in their thoughts.
"Hello, comrade superintendent, here on your orders," I reported, barely inside the superintendent's office.
The superintendent was sitting behind his desk, looking over some paperwork.
"Comrade mechanic," he announced after a moment, without raising his head and still carefully scanning the paperwork, "your behaviour does not please me at all."
He threw the paperwork down on the table, leaned on the armrests of his chair and looked at me with a fixed, unpleasant, spiteful, piercing look.
I became disconcerted.
What's up?
Only yesterday his deputy was praising me, saying that I'd settled in very well in my few months in the job and that he was happy with me to the highest possible degree,
and that the superintendent had done very well when he pulled me out of the track brigade.
And now this?
You must realise that you are a railway track technician and you must behave accordingly.
The type of greeting that you used this morning was simply unacceptable.
I stammered that I'd used this greeting since childhood, that that was how I'd been brought up and that I didn't see anything wrong with it.
It was like a red rag to a bull for the superintendent.
"You work on a socialist railway and the only acceptable greeting is 'čest práci' ('honour to work')," snapped the superintendent.
And furthermore, you're still mixing up greetings to your superiors.
One minute you say 'Mr' and the next it's 'Comrade'.
To you, I'm not Mr Superintendent, but Comrade Superintendent.
Deputies are comrade deputy, head track maintenance supervisors are to be addressed as comrade track maintenance supervisor!
Now kindly remember that!
I'm sorry, Mr...comrade superintendent, but...but I greeted you with a normal, everyday greeting.
There's nothing bad about that, after all...and that honour to work, or comrade...you know...I'm not in the Party...
"That isn't one of your virtues, that you aren't in the Party," declared the superintendent coldly, having calmed down slightly in the meantime.
You'll hear more about that later.
In any case, bear in mind that you haven't got that chair upstairs reserved until you retire.
That wasn't good.
When the superintendent told someone that something wasn't one of their virtues, the prospects weren't good for whoever was on the receiving end.
For a moment he looked at me with a cold, piercing look and I searched for words to answer him with.
I was also annoyed by the way he arrogantly addressed me in the familiar form.
He was only a few years older than me and acted like my lord and master - actually, comrade and master.
Jovial, puffed-up, authoritarian, arrogant, whatever suited him at any given moment.
We all used the formal form to address him.
So be it, he's the superintendent.
Actually, not everyone did, the chairman of the Party organisation used to the familiar form to address him, and non-Party members, too.
The superintendent, however, addressed many people in the familiar, especially those to whom he could apply his superiority.
Right now he was putting me down for what was a lot of rubbish.
I thought something about an arse and it was as much as I could not do to shout it in his face -
except that would mean that I wouldn't even return to pickaxe work on the line, never mind become a railway official.
How would I support two children?
And the half-built house!
I was ready to cry, but I controlled myself.
I wouldn't give him that pleasure.
"That's all for now, you can go," the superintendent ended the audience and started again carefully examining the paperwork that he'd had in his hand before.
They summoned me at half past eleven.
Everyone from the office was already there and when I asked what was going on they replied, yeah, it'll be fine.
Only Jožin said caustically how it had been his habit that they couldn't fire all of us because the comrade superintendent would have to do the work himself with his minions, and there was no risk of that.
Here, he emphasised the word 'comrade', as if he knew what the superintendent had put me down for in the morning.
It was quite the meeting in the superintendent's office.
The comrade superintendent was sitting behind his desk and behind the other desk were other comrades who were to decide on my future as a civil servant.
The vetting officer, chairman of the revolutionary trades-union committee, the recorder from the staffing department, the clerk for special purposes, something like a counterintelligence officer in the army, and the deputy, my boss.
And the most important person, the chairman of the Party organisation.
I knew him from the railway line.
A normal railway worker, who packed sleepers and shoveled gravel.
And also a former guard.
There were rumours that back then there was no joking with him, he was a proper monster.
Crooked tongues claimed that he'd left school after seven years, hadn't learnt anything, couldn't do anything.
And when they closed the jail he ended up with a pickaxe working on the railway line.
But a comrade, yes, he was a dyed-in-the-wool comrade!
The superintendent instructed me to sit down.
I had butterflies in my stomach and a lump in my throat.
The vetting officer read the assessment from the civic committee from my place of residence.
I come from a working-class family, I am married, have two children and so on and so on.
So far so good, I thought and breathed just a little bit better.
Then the assessment from the Party's street organisation.
This was a repeat of the assessment from the civic committee, perhaps they were written by the same person.
But then it came!
Parents long-term members of the Party, refused to attend the checking committee and subsequently left the Party, allegedly for health reasons.
The superintendent looked at me sharply.
The vetting officer noticed this and stopped reading.
The superintendent instructed him to continue.
It only got worse after that.
I had been a member of the town committee of the Union of Socialist Youth, where I was chosen as a Party candidate.
Irrespective of my parents, who had left the Party, the Party put its trust in me.
But I got married and, apart from at the national committee offices, I also had a ceremony in a church.
I'd let down the Party's trust in me in the worst way possible.
Because of this I had been removed from their list of candidates.
But it wasn't enough!
I had both of my children christened, and when my mother died, I even organised a church funeral for her, even though she was a former Party member.
In doing all of this I was showing a negative attitude to the Party.
Once the vetting officer had finished reading, only the tapping of the superintendent's pencil on the table interrupted the tense silence.
Everyone looked at me fixedly and I wished I was somewhere very far away.
During this I had constantly been silently repeating to myself "Communists - superpeople, Communists - superpeople". What had I got myself into?
Why hadn't I stayed with the blacksmiths?
I could have fixed points without any bloody checks.
But now?
My career as a railway officer had finished earlier than it had started.
Return to the brigade?
That probably won't work, the superintendent'll definitely kick me out for an hour.
"Comrade, how did you vet the comrade under discussion here?" the superintendent interrupted the tense silence with a question directed at the vetting officer.
Well, according to the assessment from his previous employment.
Do you have it here?
The vetting officer was visibly in two minds.
There were beads of sweat on his temples and he was blinking nervously, as if he himself was being vetted.
He nodded eagerly and passed a piece of paper to the superintendent.
"Well," declared the superintendent with a hint of joviality, which was, however, often the harbinger of a storm.
At first glance nothing but praise, graduated with distinction, studied industrial college, worked on commission as a locksmith, met the quota with an average of one hundred and twenty percent.
Except the important stuff was missing.
Where did you get that assessment from, comrade?" he again turned to the vetting officer, who felt as if the situation was starting to turn against him and that very soon he might not be a vetting officer.
The comrade gave it to me when he joined us.
Is that sufficient?
"Well, when he joined us, we went to do brigade work in the district," babbled the vetting officer.
And there they don't ask for assessments, his was a kind of extra, so I put it into his folder.
"So when you were put in a technical job this slip of paper was enough," said the superintendent drily.
The vetting officer blinked nervously and couldn't quite bring himself to answer.
"It doesn't matter, we'll discuss it next time," said the superintendent, closing the matter. The vetting officer was visibly relieved.
He'd managed it for the time being.
"Whats wrong with you, comrade?" asked the superintendent, turning to me.
Suddenly he was addressing me in the formal, so I'm finished!
My vision went dark and I started feeling hot.
There followed a torrent of rebukes and accusations and I knew that I was the most repugnant creature on Earth, who didn't deserve the slightest mercy.
In giving him this incomplete assessment I had led the comrade vetting officer into error and not understood why the assessment was incomplete when I got it from the vetting officer at the factory.
Also that I was an anti-socialist element who, at the time of the building of socialist realism had supported the whirl of religious obscurantism, nay, taken part in it.
That I had committed many things, or was maybe committing now, and I silently prayed for it to be over.
It was all one to me now.
I didn't care that I'd be thrown out of my position as a mechanical officer.
I didn't care that they'd take my pickaxe away from me.
That's work for honest, decent people, not for enemies of the people, as I was in the eyes of the comrade superintendent.
"That will be enough, comrade superintendent," said the Party chairman suddenly, emphatically interrupting the superintendent's lecture.
Here the comrade had made a mistake, a massive mistake.
Mistake? It was nothing but idiocy!
And he got his punishment!
Don't forget that, comrade superintendent!
What can be worse for a young person than to close his doors to the party for a while!
To open them again, he would have to prove that he had changed, that he is again worthy of our trust.
The uneducated guard spoke like a book.
Where did that come from?
Is he that well-read or was he parroting phrases from Party training courses and meetings?
That's why we must give that young comrade a chance!
A chance to show that he has changed.
And who else should give him that than you, comrade superintendent?
It is your responsibility to support this young, yes, somewhat confused comrade in his efforts to reform!
It is your responsibility as a Party member, of which no-one can absolve you!
In fact, it the responsibility of us all as Party members.
Here the comrade must see that the Party has not forgotten us.
That, as a caring mother, it does not just punish, but also love.
Once the chairman had finished, no-one said a word.
No-one had expected such a turnaround in the situation.
Least of all me.
"I agree with you entirely, comrade chairman," said the superintendent icily, nodding in agreement, trying to take back the initiative.
If you had let me finish, then you would have heard that I was getting to exactly this conclusion.
Everyone nodded their heads in agreement, but you could see that they didn't believe a single word.
"So I was confirmed in the position of independent clerk for the care of basic resources," I whooped when I returned to the office, immediately bursting into tears.
It was good that, apart from engineer Eva, everyone was at lunch.
She silently listened to my incoherent description of my recent experiences, during which time I calmed down.
Once I'd finished, she asked if I wanted a coffee.
Without waiting for an answer, she put water to boil and got the mugs ready.
During this she talked about vetting practices.
About how they'd give you one assessment, often full of praise, and they'd send the second one, full of dirt, to your new employer.
However, I didn't end up where I should have done, but with a pickaxe on the railway line, so the comrades from the factory didn't know where to send it.
And our vetting officer?
He'll be worrying about where he'd eat or drink what, and eventually it turned out the way it did.
"He'll catch it from the old man," she noted maliciously.
He definitely won't enjoy it today.
Be careful around him though, he's quite vengeful.
And the Party chairman?
Basically much worse than the superintendent, no altruist.
A zero with a pickaxe has great power.
The water for the coffee was starting to boil and the office soon filled with the scent of freshly poured coffee.
I threw a sugar cube into the mug and silently mixed the hot brew.
Perhaps I was out of the woods.
They wouldn't fire me now, and the next checks wouldn't be for three years.
In any case, the comrade superintendent wouldn't let me forget this day just like that.
Published by EPIKA in the LITERÁTI NA TRATI II. anthology
Village symbol comes to life
After years of inactivity, the wheel of the Chlum windmill is again turning.
Situated on a fifteen-metre high mast, it can be seen for miles around.
People from the surrounding area call it the 'Chlum fan'.
The windmill even found its way onto the coat of arms of the village, population 150, which it was awarded in 2010 for the community's homecoming gathering.
"Back then we applied for a coat of arms, and obviously we wanted the 'fan' on that - everyone in the area knows it," says village mayor Jiří Mašek.
The Chlum windmill is a local technological monument.
One could also say that it is a memento of the present: it serves as a reminder of the time when the local people fought for good-quality drinking-water,
which in the past was a rare occurrence in Chlum.
It was only in 1910 that the local council settled on a solution that served them well until the mid-1980s:
a seven-metre well was dug in the village, which lies near the turn-off to Číchov.
Three years later the well was supplemented with a metal structure and wind-powered pump for pumping water into the reservoir at the highest point of the village, close to the church.
"The structure was built by the firm of Antonín Kunc from Hranice na Moravě at a cost of 2,400 crowns," states the plaque on the enclosure of the mast structure.
After several repairs and falls of the windwheel, the pump reached the end of its lifespan in 1971.
7 May 1973 saw the opening of a new chapter in the fight for water: on this day a new pipeline started serving Chlum.
The wind-powered pump remained merely a non-functioning symbol of the village and local rarity.
The village's dominant feature was put into operation at this year's homecoming gathering.
It was only in 2008 that the local inhabitants decided to repair the windwheel and put it back into operation
and a replica of the original wheel - smaller by half a metre - was ordered.
The wheel was mounted on a mast, which however had to be dismantled in the same year
as the producer of the wheel chose an unsuitable material, meaning that the wheel was unable to resist gusts of wind.
The structure then laid under a roof, dismantled, for several years.
However, as of this year the wheel, mounted on a high mast, is again turning.
On the occasion of the homecoming gathering the village had the replica wheel modified and re-mounted on top of an iron tower.
However, the wheel only pumps water from the well to a blind spillway.
In the summer we disconnected it totally because there wasn't enough water in the well.
It pumped empty.
"In the autumn we'll then disconnect the shaft of the pump windwheel in the suction basket again," said Mašek.
Chlum isn't the only village in the Czech Republic that has a windwheel its coat of arms; however, it is the only village of this type in the whole of the Vysočina region.
A similar element, honouring a local technological monument, can be found in the coats of arms of e.g. Chvalkovice and Zelená Hora near Vyškov, Kuželov near Hodonín, Partutovice near Přerov and Police near Vsetín.
No hard feelings, but I've never heard of Lafata, admits Tripolis mainstay Goian.
"I remember the match against Slavia very well, and my goal, like all in my career," laughed 34 year-old Goian and the pre-match press conference.
Back then our coach was Gheorghe Hagi, we were unlucky to lose.
I hope that I score a goal against Sparta now, too.
Just that this time we won't lose," continued Goian.
Goian has played 60 international matches for Romania and is a key player for the Greek team.
Playing as a sweeper, Goian will face attacks by the Sparta strikers.
A few thousand people will turn up, no hell, said Sparta player Hybš on the duel with the Greek team.
He also has some idea of what awaits on Thursday.
I know Fatai well - he played with my brother Lucian for Astra in Romania.
Back then I saw all their games.
I know that he's a very good striker, that's also why he went to Sparta, said Goian.
Goian did not mention any other Sparta players by name, and was then asked directly if he knew about David Lafata, Sparta captain and top scorer in the history of the Czech league.
Goian smiled at this and directed a mildly reproachful look at the Czech journalists.
He had a helpless look on his face, as if to say: "Why are you asking me about that?"
After a moment of silence he spoke.
We've seen a few videos and we've seen that Sparta plays very much as a team.
It has some really good players.
And Lafata?
No hard feelings, but I don't know anyone else apart from Fatai.
The Sparta players, on the other hand, know very well about Goian.
"He has experience with bigger clubs, you could say that he keeps Asteras's defence going, he organises their play," noted Sparta assistant coach Stanislav Hejkal.
While Goian has his best years behind him, he can boast a very interesting football CV.
In previous times he attracted interest from Borussia Dortmund, Stuttgart and both Manchester teams - United and City - but when he left Steaua Bucharest he signed for Italian club Palermo. He also played for Glasgow Rangers.
We're expecting an unusual, aggressive style, says the coach.
Sparta is a big team, they regularly play in European competition, they compete for victory in the Czech league.
For me they are the favourites in this game, but we are playing at home and we want to start the group with a good result.
We will try to win, just like Sparta, said Goian.
I'm sharing a room with Slovak goalie Tomáš Košický, who's really looking forward to playing the Czech team.
Me too.
But I can say for the whole team that we will fight hard.
Kofola to move from Poland to the Czech Republic, considering entering the Prague stock exchange.
New headquarters would be in Ostrava.
Due to trading in company shares on the Warsaw stock exchange, Kofola S.A was registered in Poland.
Our primary goal is to have the group headquarters in the Czech Republic.
The steps that we have so far taken in this project are primarily of a legal and administrative nature and do not have a real impact on events within the company, says Daniel Buryš, CFO of the Kofola group.
"Shareholders are considering the listing of the company on the Prague stock exchange in relation to the moving of the company's headquarters."
Due to its listing on the Prague Stock Exchange the company is completing a prospectus, which it will submit to the Czech National Bank for approval in the near future.
The moving of the headquarters of the holding company and the related share transfers will take the form of a non-public transaction in which only existing shareholders will participate.
No shares will therefore be offered to the public or new investors as part of this transaction.
"Any offering of shares to new investors would take place - if so decided by the company and its shareholders - at a later stage, either in the fourth quarter of 2015 or the first quarter of 2016," stated the company.
The firm had previously stated that any share offer would consist of the issuing of new shares or the sale of existing shares.
This offer could consist of an offer of shares on the stock exchange in the Czech Republic and in Poland, including the placing of shares on the Warsaw stock exchange.
Czech Television objectivity test on level of informedness about the migrant crisis
Another short test of the objectivity and balance of news on the refugee crisis supplied by the main Czech media.
This time it focuses on Czech Television's main news programme.
How did it fare?
When they're teaching journalism students about how the media manipulates reality, they could show them today's edition of Czech Television's "Události" programme.
About 80% of the programme was devoted to the migrant crisis.
Apart from the first minute, when CT reported on unrest on the Serbian-Hungarian border and it euphemistically said that migrant attacks on police was a case of them losing their patience (they threw stones and used metal bars), it was a case of the current pro-migrant propaganda - judge for yourselves by the titles of individual reports.
Criticism of NGOs - lots of space given to non-profit organisations that criticise the bad treatment of migrants.
Syrian children in Czech school - story about integrated Syrians in the Czech Republic.
Refugees as not only a threat, but also an opportunity
Travelling of refugees - CT consistently uses the term refugee, and not migrant.
What is striking is that in its stock footage CT consistently uses solely footage of women and small children,
while in the same programme, CT itself stated that 80% of migrants held in the Czech Republic are male.
Summary: Mostly propaganda unheard-of since the days of Communist agitation.
As a former journalist I must say that I'm ashamed of my colleagues.
Ecology in practice
Once when I bought a flat in a high-rise I soon found that I wasn't the only inhabitant.
Silverfish moved into my formica toilet.
Pet silverfish, vermin with an imperfect transformation, i.e. they don't experience that transformation from caterpillar to beetle, the young looks like an adult, just very small, and it grows.
I found them disgusting and didn't shirk in getting rid of them.
First by hand and then with chemicals.
The socialist-era chemist's gave me some blue crystals to get rid of them.
I think it was called Zyklon B.
Or something else?
But it successfully got rid of them.
I did something similar with the pharaoh ants.
I used a box of juvenilising agent that would be taken by the ants would take to their nest and stop the queen from producing more young.
But I digress.
As time went by, the insects become an object of admiration for me and I increasingly came round to the opinion that they have the same right to life as us humans.
Furthermore, in my experience, interfering with the ecosystem does not lead to success and one pest can replace another.
It's true, though, that with fleas and bedbugs I'd have no problems worsening my karma by killing them.
At our new home my partner and I agreed that, just so long as they weren't climbing around our necks, they were free to tuck into fallen flakes of skin, invisible eyelashes and so on.
After a while their peaceful existence was disrupted by a spider.
It was a normal type of corner-dweller that that settled in on the ceiling.
We'd thought that it lived off normal flies and mosquitoes, which only increased our comfort level.
Because it was there for several years, we found out that it mainly lived off silverfish and that it evidently kept their numbers to a bearable level.
Through close, regular contact while we were answering the call of nature we found out that it was a female.
This was because we were witness to the romantic courtship with a partner that was about a third her size. We saw him carefully pluck at the web filaments so that he wasn't gobbled up before it got to the longed-for copulation.
It took about three days, during which they didn't move and didn't react to our checks.
Below the toilet bowl, where the romantic games took place, we later found the dried-out remains of the male next to the female.
After that the spider didn't move for weeks on end.
When we thought it was all over, we were surprised by a large number of small spiders dangling in various places around her.
They soon disappeared.
Some of them had been eaten by their mother and the others had scattered elsewhere.
After a week, the female herself disappeared.
We don't know whether she went somewhere else or died, but after a month she re-appeared on the ceiling.
True, it was the somewhat smaller offspring, probably daughter, of its ancestor from the toilet.
For a while she discreetly followed our behaviour from the ceiling and then moved underneath the toilet bowl, judging our failure to attack her as friendship.
The large number of somewhat more numerous silverfish was again reduced and the spider quietly went about its business of feeding itself.
For a whole year our ecosystem didn't change.
In that time our daughter reached the age where it's embarrassing to use a potty.
Up until then we had tolerated it, but we were starting to get fed up of constantly emptying the contents.
We were ever-more insistent in getting her to use the toilet.
However, our daughter used the spider, which she had a very good view of when wiping, as an excuse to continue her bad habit.
She didn't accept it all when we said that having a spider in the house was good luck.
By crying and screaming she forced us to get the potty out.
There was nothing else to do.
The moment arrived when the spider had to make way in the interests of our daughter progressing in her development.
It was up to me.
It was caught in a jar and banished somewhere into the garden via the balcony.
I parted from it as I would a friend, but after such a long time together I felt horrible, as if I was kicking out a relative.
We assumed that the silverfish would become more common and start to reproduce by geometrical progression.
And what do you know? - a week went by, two weeks, and we didn't see a single one.
I started to speculate about the cause.
It occurred to me that, following the example of the ants, the spider hadn't cultivated them there and that the environment of the toilet wasn't as favourable to their existence as we'd thought.
But then the first medium-sized ones appeared and soon it was swarming with them.
I had to think up another theory for their disappearance and then I realised that their connection to the spider was that, when they couldn't see it, they thought that it was hiding somewhere else and that danger could come from anywhere.
Or maybe they had some kind of telepathic connection to their predator and its rapid disappearance provoked some panic response in them.
I'm am under no illusions about their powers of vision.
They shows some indication of being scared of the light, but never reacted to me waving my hand or sudden movements.
Our daughter now goes to the toilet regularly.
I think she's forgotten about the potty.
Now we just need to attract another spider here.
I'm now transmitting my wish to the Internet and I have they haven't turned their backs on us after that eviction.
Otherwise we'd have to use the Zyklon B.
Ten statements by Albert Einstein that enriched the world.
The things said by the brilliant scientist from the last century will probably never stop fascinating humanity.
He immersed himself so deeply in everything that the results were always incredible revelations.
Albert Einstein (1879 - 1955) was one of the most important scientists of all time.
He primarily entered public consciousness through his special and general theories of relativity, the best descriptions yet provided of the universe in its gigantic dimensions.
Nor can one forget his elaboration of the law of photoeffect or the idea of the quantisation of electromagnetic fields.
There is no doubt that the description itself and the system of findings in the popular theory of relativity is, for many, so complex that they prefer to use easier points of reference for learning about it.
However, it is not easy.
It would not be Albert Einstein, though, if he hadn't found a brilliant solution to this, too: an hour close to your loved one seems like a minute; a minute in a hot oven seems like an hour - that is relativity.
I have chosen ten out of his galaxy of famous quotes that enthralled me.
A clever person solves a problem. A wise person avoids it.
Two things are infinite:
the universe and human stupidity;
and I'm not sure about the universe.
No amount of experimentation can ever prove me right;
a single experiment can prove me wrong.
What a sad era when it is easier to smash an atom than a prejudice.
If a cluttered desk is a sign of a cluttered mind, of what, then, is an empty desk a sign?
I know not with what weapons World War III will be fought, but World War IV will be fought with sticks and stones.
There are a thousand ways to kill time, but none to revive it.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing. So is a lot.
If I were given an hour in which to do a problem upon which my life depended, I would spend 40 minutes studying it, 15 minutes reviewing it and 5 minutes solving it.
The hardest thing in the world to understand is income taxes.
To close, I can't not quote Einstein's formula for the definition of success: if we take A as success, the following equation applies: A=X+Y+Z, where X is work, Y is rest and Z is to hold your tongue.
New and modern.
Hospitals in the Zlín Region to expect changes worth 1.5 billion.
"It's a success when you consider that all four have been in the black for all of this year," stated regional governer Stanislav Mišák contentedly.
The total profit of regional facilities is currently about 32 million crowns.
This is partly due to higher payments from insurance companies, and which are just as favourable for this year.
This fact, too, shows that after some lean years, hospitals can now finally afford larger investments.
{Preparations are therefore being made in Kroměříž, Vsetín, Uherské Hradiště and Uherské Hradiště for construction work that will cost a total of 1.5 billion crowns.
The long period when we only bought instruments has ended.
Now we must start to construct new buildings, as top healthcare is not possible without them, said regional deputy minister for healthcare Lubomír Nečas.
The changes are eagerly awaited in all hospitals.
Building work will start next year.
A tendering process is now underway in Vsetín for a supplier for a new pavilion for internal medicine worth nearly 300 million crowns.
The addition of a dialysis unit is planned in Kroměříž.
Uherské Hradiště wants to add a new ward worth 200 million crowns to the central pavilion that it opened this year.
Baťa Hospital in Zlín can look forward to the long-delayed construction of a new central reception and ward, which will cost three-quarters of a billion crowns.
In all cases these are fundamental changes that are the biggest in recent years.
"This is an extraordinarily important step for the region as a whole, patients and doctors," said Věra Prousková, director of the department of internal medicine in Vsetín.
The five-storey building is to be ready in approximately two years and will offer comfortable facilities for internal medicine and neurology, dialysis, new out-patient wards, beds and an intensive care unit.
Greater comfort for patients.
The changes, which will chiefly be noticed by patients, will affect all regions.
The new buildings will replace those in which, for example, many patients share a single room, there is only one toilet per floor, beds are non-adjustable, windows not insulated and healthcare workers do not enjoy adequate working conditions.
"For example, our internal medicine department was built thirty-five years ago and now it's reaching the end of its lifespan," pointed out Pavel Calábek, director of Zlín Hospital.
Within a few years it will be replaced by a modern, seven-storey building connected to the accident and emergency department,
meaning that both doctors and patients will have all departments for acute cases in the one place, and in new premises.
Construction work following the same model in Uherské Hradiště is already half-finished.
The central reception is already in place and will be joined by an internal medicine ward within three years.
"Construction work will be paid through a loan and partly from our own funds," explained hospital director Petr Sládek.
Uherské Hradiště is the only hospital in the region that is able to afford its own financing.
It still enjoys the greatest profits and didn't even make a loss three years ago when, for example, the hospital in Zlín experienced a loss of nearly two million crowns.
"We have good contracts with insurance companies, excellent output, we're increasing income and effectively manage costs throughout the whole hospital," said Vlastimil Vajdák, who is in charge of the hospital's finances.
Patients of the hospital in Kroměříž can also look forward to changes.
During the next ten to fifteen years up half a billion crowns are to be spent on repairs, new instruments and reconstruction.
Repairs to the sobering-up station will be complete this year, after which work will begin on a dialysis unit and a building to house a new magnetic resonance unit.
Economic activity of regional hospitals
+ 5.5 mil.
+ 900 tho.
Uherské Hradiště
+ 18 mil.
+13 mil.
+ 3.8 mil.
+ 8.8 mil.
Vsetín
+ 4 mil.
+ 9 mil.
All data are correct to 31 July of the given year.
Nobody has explained to how I am supposed to keep refugees in the Czech Republic when they don't want to live here.
Following a meeting with his European counterparts Minister for the Interior Milan Chovanec (ČSSD) complains that other countries are putting pressure on the Czech Republic to accept refugee distribution quotas while rejecting any discussion.
He also adds that nobody has yet explained how he is to keep allocated refugees in the Czech Republic when they don't want to live there anyway.
"We didn't get an answer, and we therefore requested that quotas were left out of the final text," said Chovanec to journalists.
Could you describe more specifically the position that you took into the meeting of EU foreign and interior ministers?
We do not agree with mandatory quotas or the system, which cannot work.
We cannot talk about migrants as if they were bags of salt or flour.
They are living beings who have a vision, are going somewhere, have relatives.
What we wanted to hear from our colleagues was how they would keep migrants on the territory of Member States if they were redistributed.
We cannot imagine this.
We didn't get an answer, so we requested that quotas be left out of the final text.
We did not have any problems with the other conclusions from the meeting - functional hotspots, that is registration points, the protection of borders, camps outside Europe, a trust fund for African countries and other matters.
We have been speaking about this for a year and think that this is the way forward.
But to say that quotas will solve everything?
Not long ago we were discussing forty thousand, now it's one hundred and twenty thousand.
When will it be five hundred thousand?
And how will we keep those people in our country?
Ninety-eight percent of people who pass through the Czech Republic want to go to Germany.
Almost no-one wants to come here, we simply don't know how to keep them here.
Other foreigners, Ukrainians, Vietnamese and others, for whom the Czech Republic is a destination country, have ambitions to come here; they get asylum - but interest from this wave of migration, that is from Syria and other countries, is virtually zero.
You have said that refugees do not want to come to the Czech Republic, but we have already undertaken to accept fifteen hundred people.
Wouldn't it be possible to accept more this way?
We undertook to accept fifteen hundred people, but with conditions.
We said: functional hotspots, border protection, military operations.
What will happen with that 1500 is that 1100 of them will undergo asylum proceedings.
They will come to our detention facilities and we will treat them the same as the ones we have caught.
It's a major issue and we'll discuss with Europe whether we can hold people who are registered in Italy, Greece or Hungary,
because Europe's attitude is that if they're registered, they can't be held.
This means that, if they enter our territory with registration, and if there's an agreement, which there isn't yet, it could be that don't even hold those 1100 on the territory of the Czech Republic and then they leave for Germany once they've arrived.
If we're able to hold them for the duration of their asylum proceedings, we will start those proceedings.
If they are citizens of Syria or Eritrea, then according to European statistics 98 percent of them get international protection.
Then they get documents that allow them to travel in Europe.
And I think that these people will then end up in destination countries.
Then there are the four hundred people who'll be resettled here.
That's the second project, which is just starting at the moment, are there we only progressed in that we're debating with the churches about the possibilities for them finding work, accommodation and so on for them.
But that's a very long-term project.
You said that other countries weren't willing to discuss the matter with us at the ministers' meeting.
Isn't it more the case that, not only is the Czech Republic rejecting quotas, it is also not offering solidaristic measures that could unblock the discussion?
And what kind of solidaristic measure should that be, in your opinion?
If the Federal Republic of Germany issues an invitation for all refugees from Syria, that message spreads through all camps in not only Europe, but also Turkey and Jordan in a matter of hours.
It encourages a further wave of immigration towards Germany, because they don't want to come to the Czech Republic.
We think that the right path is the protection of external borders - to discourage these waves of migration, help the needy and separate out the economic migrants.
To show them unambiguously that they don't have a chance.
Fifty thousand Kosovars came to Germany last year alone.
From safe Kosovo, where we pay everything in the country, including police, the courts and state attorneys.
If could separate and not accept them, and accept them solely according to economic needs, then the fifty percent of what the social security systems pay out to them for nothing could go towards refugees.
The number of people held in the Czech Republic increased the day after Germany introduced checks.
Now it's eighty, and on the first day it was twelve.
How far must it go before border checks become even more stringent?
We were worried about capturing hundreds of people.
These are the numbers that we can manage.
We still have several hundred free spaces in brick-and-mortar detention facilities.
Obviously, everyone we catch will be returned to Austria within seven days.
That's out standard procedure.
The Austrians are the only ones who take them from us. With Hungary it's complicated and the Greeks - that's something else entirely.
Where is the tipping point?
A thousand a day?
I think it would have to be several hundred a day.
Two hundred, three hundred people on two, three consecutive days exhaust our capacities sufficiently that we have to resort to crisis plans.
I have an agreement with the prime minister that we would then immediately call an emergency government meeting.
He takes a considerable interest in the whole issue, and we talk on the ophone several times per day.
Should that situation arise, the government can de facto meet immediately and a single ruling would decide on reinforcements for the police and army, let's say the customs service, and maybe the prison service.
Is an extreme option the state of emergency that has been called in some parts of Hungary?
I don't think it'll go that far here.
You must realise that we are in a different position, we are a landlocked state within the European Union. Our one and only Schengen border is at the airport.
I don't know what would have to occur for this to happen on the territory of the Czech Republic. I don't want to scaremonger.
All the information that we have, be it from Moldova, Serbia or Hungary, indicates that the Hungarians are trying to divert the flow of migration to Croatia and Slovenia, which would then mean a direct route into Austria.
This would only marginally concern the Czech Republic - hardly at all.
Slavia pays off majority of debts at last minute
in effort to stave off bankruptcy declaration.
The Slavia football team has paid off its debts.
Footballers have received their money too.
The Slavia football club was in court for the first time due to its insolvency proceedings on Tuesday,
almost three months after an insolvency petition for approximately 20 million crowns was submitted against it by a company called Online Services from Samoa in the Pacific Ocean.
Over the course of several hours, Slavia's legal representative, Zuzana Mládková, tried to convince judge Michaela Wenzlová to not declare Slavia bankrupt.
It should be said that she did have a case.
One of the main arguments was that, the week before last, Slavia was taken over by CEFC China, a large industrial and investment group from China, and Czech billionaire Jiří Šimáně.
Slavia has visibly received money, at the last minute, from the new owners.
This was also demonstrated by Slavia's statement prior to Tuesday's court proceedings - on Monday the Vršovice club paid the tens of millions of crowns owned.
"Everything was paid between 11 and 15 September," stated Slavia's legal representative, Zuzana Mládková.
Who did Slavia pay the money to?
Both current and former players and commercial partners.
Specifically, these included, for example, former Slovak international Milan Ivana and Czech midfielder Mario Lička.
Slavia also paid a fee to agent Alexandre Losenický.
The club also paid fees due to the Prague 10 Municipal Authority on Friday.
The insolvency dispute now de facto only involves liabilities disputed by Slavia.
Either the aforementioned liabilities did not exist in the first place or are subject to lawsuits.
Nonetheless, we are prepared to pay these amounts, should we lose these cases.
Mládková told the judge that "We have the requisite funds on a bank account, which we can demonstrate through the submission of an account statement."
"Everything that was due has been paid," declared Mládková, adding that the only unpaid liabilities were that were not yet due, or disputed.
It is also certain that the judge will not come to a decision within the next few days and that the proceedings shall continue.
She gave Slavia three weeks to send detailed evidence that it really has paid the aforementioned debts.
All evidence will then be assessed.
A decision will be made by November at the earliest.
The judge ordered that the proceedings continue on the third of November.
However, the decision will not be made at this meeting, but in writing following it.
Medals awarded to Finns and Austrians.
FastMig X represents the latest generation of invertor welding tools.
The combination of state-of-the-art technologies and hardware and software integrated into a modular structure brings benefits and a fast return on investment in the form of high quality, productivity and reliability.
The FastMig X is a modular system whose final composition is always set according to the requirements of the customer,
whatever they are, from the welding of steel constructions to the welding of special alloys, as well as from the welding of coarse materials to the welding of thin sheet-metal, from workshop application of shipyards.
The incredible possibilities offered by welding arcs, simple settings and expandibility of the welding resource allows you to respond quickly to changes in requirements, reducing idle time, reconfiguration of the tool and more productive welding.
The FastMig X allows you to weld using state-of-the-art welding processes developed by Kemppi, ensuring higher productivity and quality of welding.
You'll waste less time and material fixing faulty welds.
The FastMig X ensures flexibility, reduced idle time, more welding and higher profits.
New this year, the FastMig X was launched in Nitra, where it also won a medal.
We highly value these honours as they confirm the exceptionality of our product.
While leading global producers can boast similar systems, FastMig X's different software and parameters management means that it amongst the best in the world.
Potential customers will also like our delivery periods, which are around three weeks.
We have already made our first contacts in the Czech Republic, which will certainly expand after the trade-fair in Brno.
We have been regular participants in the trade-fair for over twenty years and our results are almost better after it then before it, emphasises Miroslav Streichsbier, manager of the Kemppi shop in Plzeň, on behalf of company ARC-H.
The FastMig X is a modular system whose final composition is always set according to the requirements of the customer,
Blanka could have been built so as to not collapse,
but would have cost half a billion more, says expert from company that composed project documentation for the tunnel.
Blanka could have been drilled more safely, says the expert.
The Blanka tunnel complex could have been built so as to prevent the two ground collapses in Stromovka park, claimed Alexandr Butovič, production manager at Satra, chief project manager of the tunnel project,
during a press tour of the tunnel on Wednesday evening.
That would, however, have been about half a billion crowns more expensive.
The complex opens to motorists on Saturday afternoon.
It's always a compromise between cost and safety.
"While the tunnel could have been drilled more safely, costs would have risen exponentially," said Butovič,
according to whom the conditions in Stromovka were the same for the whole construction period; despite this, the ground collapsed only metres from the spot where the drilling process started using a safer, more careful method.
"If that method had been used 500 metres earlier, the tunnel would have been half a billion crowns more expensive," stated Butovič.
Three ground collapses occurred during the construction of the Blanka tunnel.
Craters appeared in Stromovka twice in 2008, and in 2010 the ground collapsed near the Ministry of Culture in Prague 6.
According to Metrostav director Jiří Bělohlav, the tunnel is overpriced, he told Euro magazine.
According to the original plans the tunnel should have cost 17 billion crowns.
Once VAT, which increased twice during the construction period, is included, seventeen billion becomes twenty-one billion.
Once technology, land purchases, engineering activities, adjustments and similar items are included, the cost is 29 billion, which isn't that far off 37 billion, said Bělohlav.
Someone ordered and paid for that.
Speed on motorways to remain unchanged.
The Chamber of Deputies has rejected a higher speed limit of 150 km/h.
On selected sections of motorway it will not possible to increase the maximum permitted speed to 150 km/h in favourable weather conditions,
decided the Chamber of Deputies on Tuesday in agreeing to the Senate's amendatory proposal rejecting the speed increase.
The amendment to the Roads Act will now be passed on to the president.
President Miloš Zeman had said at the end of April that he would veto a law to allow driving at 150 km/h.
Also against the move was Transport Minister Dan Ťok (on behalf of ANO), according to whom the Czech motorway network isn't yet built for such speeds.
On Tuesday Ťok supported the Senate's version of the law in front of the Chamber of Deputies.
In accordance with the original government proposal, the approved amendment now allows the increase of the maximum speed from 90 to 110 km/h on selected first-class roads, especially four-lane ones.
The Chamber of Deputies had originally expanded this to include motorways, on selected sections of which driving would be permitted at speeds of up to 150 km/h, but this was rejected by the Senate.
MPs have now assented to this proposal.
With the agreement of the Minister for Transport, Senators also removed the authority of the police to have the final say in the modification of local roads that are maintained by municipalities.
The Senate's version, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, anticipates the lengthwise laying of sewage systems, water systems and cabling for public lighting beneath road surfaces,
saving municipalities money that would be spent on land purchases.
This would mean that municipalities would also not be required to take care of vegetation along the sides of local roads, regardless of the owner of the land.
The amendment is also intended to help improve the protection of roads and make it easier for municipalities to handle vehicles that have been towed away and that are not claimed by the owners.
Municipalities would now be able to sell such vehicles if not claimed by their owners within a six-month period following notification of towing away.
Municipalities will have the option of banning the transit of goods vehicles across their territory on second- and third-class roads under threat of a fine, which also apply to the haulage company.
The amendment also abolishes the option of introducing electronic car tax stickers instead of paper ones, which shall therefore continue to be used beyond 1 January next year.
According to the government, this will save money on the introduction of an electronic system.
Ústí mayor to go on trial
May get 10 years for overpriced Little Citizens' Welcome.
The case concerns the allegedly overpriced Little Citizens' Welcome project.
The police also wanted to prosecute MP Zuzana Kailová (ČSSD) in this case, although she was not released by the Chamber of Deputies.
According to the legal classification of the case, both may receive prison sentences of up to ten years.
The main trial is currently planned for two days in October.
The indictment states that, according to the state prosecutor, Mandík and Macík caused damage to the minimum amount of one million crowns.
The prosecutor's case is based on an expert report.
According to the prosecutor, former members of the city authority used their official roles to gain assets to the benefit of the company that organised the Little Citizens' Welcome.
According to the indictment, Mandík tasked the then head of the municipal services, education and culture department of the Ústí nad Labem city authority with a tender process for five interconnected companies.
When another company offering the lowest price entered the competition, the authority cancelled the process.
The city is then said to have entrusted the contract to an administrator and the competition was only entered by Darothore, which was then awarded the contract by the city council.
The city paid a minimum million crowns more than it should have done.
Both the accused, led by the goal of ensuring that Darothore was awarded the public contract for the organisation of the Little Citizens' Welcome event in Ústí nad Labem, conducted coordinated actions over an extended period of time that were, at the very least, in breach of the requirement for process that is in line with that of good management, writes the state prosecutor.
It continues to state that, at the same time, they were aware Darothore, following its awarding of this contract, charged Ústí nad Labem a price for the realisation of the Little Citizens' Welcome event that was disproportionately excessive compared to the true value of services actually provided.
According to records, the company received more than five million crowns over three years.
In the end, the city only paid approximately 1.7 million crowns of this then withdrew from the contract.
According to the expert report, the amount paid was excessive by at least one million crowns.
Mandík had previously denied any breach of the law.
I didn't commit any criminal offence, I'm innocent.
I don't understand this fabricated affair, said the already former mayor, also saying that, under his leadership, the city was only continuing a similar project from previous years.
The event was organised by the Roxy II agency in the years 2008-2010.
"It was under the same conditions, for the same amount of money," added Mandík.
Criminal investigators originally also wanted to charge MP Kailová, who had also been a member of the city council.
However, the Chamber of Deputies did not release her for prosecution.
Criminal investigators therefore adjourned the case regarding her, but anticipate charging Kailová once her mandate in the Chamber of Deputies ends.
The Little Citizens' Welcome was a social event that took place several times per year.
In it, mothers received cheques worth 5 thousand crowns to buy children's goods and small gifts.
Hungarian police allegedly set a dog on a refugee,
then forced journalists to delete footage.
Hungarian police on the border with Serbia allegedly briefly detained an AP cameraman and forced him to delete footage allegedly showing a police dog knocking a refugee to the ground.
However, this accusation is questioned by the Hungarian government.
The alleged incident occurred on Saturday evening, when AP cameraman Luca Muzi was filming migrants crossing the border with Serbia through a cornfield close to the Hungarian town of Röszke.
Police intervened against the refugees and one of them set a dog with a muzzle on one Syrian.
The dog rolled the man, who was shouting "Please, please, I'm a refugee," over onto the ground, claims Muzi.
The fact that Muzi was filming this was noticed by one police officer, who stopped him from leaving.
The journalist was then forbidden from phoning either his superiors or his colleagues in situ.
The policemen led Muzi off to a dark room by the registration centre for refugees and requested that he show them what he had recorded.
They then ordered him to delete the recording.
Muzi thus lost the results of two days' work in Serbia and Hungary.
He said that he felt as if he was in danger due to the presence of the dogs.
AP sent a letter of protest to Hungarian government spokesman Zoltán Kovács.
In it, the agency described the behaviour of the police as unacceptable and stated that journalists should be able to cover events without risking physical violence and without fear that the government would destroy legally obtained material.
With reference to the police report, Kovács questioned Muzi's version of events.
He said that the police had only wanted him to show them whether they were in some pictures, to which they allegedly had a right.
When they found that they weren't, they didn't force him to delete anything.
"Dogs may bark - they're trained to do so to deter people and spread a bit of fear, but they certainly didn't attack," claims Kovács.
The unpredictable Champions League
Win at City will give us a boost, believe Juventus
"It's disappointing, I don't think we deserved to lose," said City coach Manuel Pellegrini, shaking his head.
We had more chances and played better than Juventus.
It was a classic Champions League match.
Neither team created many chances, but we had the ball for longer.
"The defeat wasn't due to tactics, Juventus just scored two beautiful goals," said Pellegrini, whose team conceded a goal for the first time in 636 minutes of competitive action.
Prior to the game, last season's finalists Juventus were in the exact opposite situation - after three rounds of Serie A, the defending champions have only one point, with two goals scored and four conceded, and are 16th in the table.
For this reason, too, the turnaround at the Etihad was surprising.
"This win will help us psychologically, it'll give us a boost," believes coach Massimiliano Allegri, who lost three mainstays - Pirlo, Tévez and Vidal - before the start of the season.
In Manchester they were replaced by Pogba, Mandžukić and Morata.
"That's true, this is a really important victory, hopefully it can help us get on a winning run," hopes Morata.
Because when we're on one, we're among the best teams in Europe.
We were the better team in the second half, especially when we were attacking.
The players deserve this result.
"Before our equaliser we could have conceded for 2:0, but Gianluigi kept us in there," Allegri was full of praise for goalkeeper Buffon.
"We wasted several good chances," said City midfielder Yaya Touré.
We'll have to put this down to experience and try and get a better result next time.
Farewell Angela, farewell old Germany II.
Before we further discuss the issue of immigrants, we should realise that the whole media hysteria is directed by professionals,
both according to the needs of the media and from above.
So let's pause for a moment.
Nowadays the newspapers are full of small children being carried on their parents' arms on the dusty journeys of the exodus.
This automatically provokes feelings of guilt and sympathy in people - that is, European people.
Well, it isn't just desperate children coming here; take a look at the boats landing at the Greek islands and you won't see too many children!
The news recently has been somewhat lacking in footage of boats going towards Lampedusa, refugees at the French border by Menton, on whose beautiful you'll see thousands of young men lounging around.
Most of them are young black men.
Nor do you see footage from Calais, where these black and dark-skinned men are waiting to see if they can get through the Channel Tunnel.
But that's not so touching.
Even those pictures of the primitive Christian church set up by the Eritreans didn't make such a big impression on Europeans.
It seemed too false.
When they're talking about refugee quotas, they somehow fail to mention that it's just about those poor children from Syria, but also those stylish - for those of an older generation: fashionably attired - young men,
who with their muscles look like they just stepped out of a fitness centre.
Here's a personal experience.
This summer we were lying on the private beach of a hotel in the Turkish - Muslim - part of Cyprus.
Regardless of the fact that it was a private beach, suddenly a large group of cars arrived.
They weren't exactly old bangers.
Some young black people got out of them.
About thirty men and five women.
Aged between 15 and 30.
They went onto the beach, all of them dressed in designer clothes and shoes. Holding, of course, smartphones.
No-one cared about the fact that it was a private beach - not even the employees - Turks, Muslims! - they were evidently afraid of them.
They took over all the sun loungers.
If you weren't lying on one and were in the sea, bad luck.
They were dressed like something out of an American rapper film.
Hats and nail on their heads, white and colourful Adidas trainers on their feet.
Then they took over the local beach bar and started partying.
They took over the tables round about and squeezed in next to the sitting dark-skinned and white - i.e. Muslim and European - customers without asking.
Mothers and children ran away from the dining patio to somewhere quiet.
The blacks who had arrived drank beer straight from small bottles - like in American serials?! - they discarded the empty bottles on the beach round about them.
They were constantly shouting loudly at one another.
Not in English of course.
Then they started drinking wine, also straight from the bottle.
They jumped into the hotel swimming-pool - in designer swimwear, especially the young ladies - screamed and shouted in the water, while mothers and children and pensioners ran away, terrified, and after half an hour there wasn't a single non-black person on the beach or in the pool.
Everyone had disappeared.
Regardless of whether they were Christian or Muslim.
The hotel employees were scared to even talk about them.
The waiter said to me in a low voice: "Did you see the gold they had on them?"
"Yeah," I said.
"They definitely didn't get that from working," said the waiter.
I remembered: "I know, they all had massive gold chains around their necks.
And one had a massive gold cross, maybe twenty centimetres long, on his neck.
And the women were dressed like in a goldsmith's.
"Are they drug smugglers?" I asked.
"You saw how they were boozing," replied the waiter.
They don't smuggle or use drugs.
They smuggle something else entirely.
Then it was clear to me what they were smuggling.
However, in June 2105 [sic] that wasn't yet so important to me.
I had no idea what was to follow.
But the secret services and leading politicians should be the first to know.
I don't think they wouldn't know.
At that time about 1.5 million immigrants were on their way to Europe.
And they come and come and come.
Now we have seen that the chief problem of the European Union is that it is the militantly politically correct politicians pretending to be intellectuals and the lobbying and economic groups associated with them that hold the greatest power.
Germany and its politicians - nowadays publically recognised as the main force in Europe - lie, lie and lie - and not just them, as well as EU heads of state and television, including ours.
For example, the recent television footage of the enthusiastic welcoming of refugees is on the level of footage shown on Russian television in August 1968.
Of course there were a few trendy liberals at the station, but mainly it was - established German - Muslims that were welcoming them.
For weeks on a lot of nonsense was spoken on Czech Television about how, according to some survey or other, almost all Germans were in favour of welcoming emigrants.
However, anyone who has spent just a few days in Germany knows that this is a massive lie.
This is confirmed by further information,
for example the famous public opinion survey conducted by ARD, the Consortium of Public Broadcasters in Germany.
Even a week ago it was still being claimed by ARD that more than 50% of Germans wanted to accept even more refugees.
This was also reported on Czech television.
However, they kept quiet about what broke the next day in Germany: an opinion poll showed that 94.5 percent of Germans didn't want to accept any more immigrants - 67,000 people took part in the poll.
It is true that five years ago, in 2010, Chancellor Merkel declared publicly: "Our efforts to establish a 'multi-culti' society have totally failed."
She further said: "Germany is giving up the fight for a multicultural society."
"All efforts for such coexistence have failed totally."
According to Merkel, in a country with four million Muslims, the strategy that allows people from varying cultural environments to live alongside one another without integrating has not proved successful. Today they live here with us and we have lied to ourselves for some time that they will not stay, and go away again some day.
This is not, however, the reality.
The multicultural approach, when we tell ourselves that we will just live happily alongside one another, has failed.
It has failed completely.
However, even Merkel probably does not have the power to oppose those holding the power in Germany and Europe, and mainly political correctness.
This is shown in the escalation of events.
Conflict is rapidly increasing.
The Eurogerman Schulz, President of the European Parliament, MEP for the SPD, is allegedly the only member of the Parliament who does not have a school-leaving certificate - yes, he is the one about whom Berlusconi said in the EU Parliament that he could play a concentration-camp guard - has made a spectacle of himself several times.
It appears, particularly in light of recent statement by German politicians, that Germany has crossed the Rubicon.
We must take note that, apart from some, the majority of European politicians do not support these statements and that the politicians of countries that were the victims of Nazism are horrified.
What has happened to the Germans?
The rich, successful and reliable Germans?
Those who for years tried, at least outwardly? to come to terms with their terrible past as aggressors and murderers of millions?
Are those who say that it is part of the soul of Germany to sow the seeds of aggressiveness, superiority and violence, right?
Was Chancellor Otto von Bismarck right when he exerted all his powers to prevent advocates of the Greater German solution to German unification from taking control of the whole centre of Europe?
When he said that the Greater German idea would destroy Germany?
Probably.
Once he was deposed, preparations started for the First World War.
The Greater German idea, which led the Germans and Europe into two world wars and cost millions of lives, has probably returned in another form.
Following Marxist attempts to take over the country, for example with the Rote Armee Fraktion, after the failure of the GDR, a new German ideology, based for example on ecology, which was, for example, one of the chief ideological branches of Nazism, started to develop.
We could call it trendy liberal.
The German elites long prevented the creation of German nationalism, and therefore left all the fighters against atomic power, enthusiasts seeking paradise for all in peace and tacitly supported the old imperial and Nazi slogan Unser Wald muss leben ('our forest must live').
To appease the restless young people who, all over the world, want to do things differently and better, they fully went over to the side of those fighting against global warming, closed nuclear power plants, etc.
In this they forgot that within this stream of thought there is also a strongly antisemitic - pro-Palestinian - and anti-Slavonic element, considering all Slavs to be troublesome vermin - that goes right back to Karl Marx, a Jew by descent, who was mainly a German nationalist.
As shown in recent statements by Schulz and German ministers, openly threatening the disobedient Eastern countries, this also includes the idea of Germany in a leading role,
and which must be listened to without excuses,
or woe betide you!
When we add to this the fact that immigrants are a highly suggestible group of voters, we have what we have.
Standing behind this is, as ever, capital, particularly German capital, which suits it and which lives off the fact that, through the banks and Union, Germany actually controls the majority of states of the European Union.
The pseudobeliefs of trendy liberals first led Germans into the swamp of ecologicalism and multiculturalism and has now brought them, and may still bring them, millions of Muslims
who, attracted by the siren calling, will soon run up against the wall of reality that Merkel does want to see, and will start to rebel.
Again, Germany can only threaten its neighbours with force, again it can ideologically captivate part - and it appears that it is an increasingly small part - of its population; however, reality will, as ever, catch up with it.
Will Germany burn again?
Muslim shelters are already burning.
What will the German government do when public protests break out in Germany against the coming Islamists?
Islamists who will be aided by Muslims who have been living in Germany for years, but have not been integrated so that they accept local habits and laws?
What will the German government do when it admits naturalised Muslims, Islamists who have arrived in the country and Germans, following the Islamisation of their country with fear?
What will happen to Germans, and Germany itself, when people rise who loudly and publicly protest against the new Euro-superhuman, the Muslim?
Germany has simply changed.
The conflict that it has provoked through its support of trendy liberal ideology, i.e. ideology that is elitist and, in essence, totalitarian, and of its insatiable banks, will grow.
And, thanks to its rude behaviour towards disobedient, democratic Germans and all of its inferior, disobedient Eastern neighbours, this cannot end well.
Final part tomorrow.
The best way to get rid of pushy salesmen: scare them to death.
All you have to do is knock and the robust doorknocker snarls at you in a way that's not for the faint-hearted.
When it comes to life the head'll put anyone in its place, even the toughest, and the pushy salesman is accompanied on their way (or rather, driven away) by a living statue.
Maybe it's a shame that you can't get a talking doorknocker in real life.
Here it'd be good for scaring off all sorts of tricksters and bastards.
Creeping woodsorrel (Oxalis corniculata).
A minor weed that tolerates dry environments.
So you can find it between the outside paving near where I live.
On 16 September 2015 I photographed this exquisite plant which, while it is one of the expansive weeds, its appearance creates a good impression from the point of view of blossoming.
It can be found between outside paving.
It's unpredictable, and thrives in our garden.
It likes drier environments and is highly adaptable, modest and undemanding.
Although it produces leaves with a chaotic composition, it's still worth observing and photographing it.
The beauty in the detail can only be seen under the microscope - yellow flowers and green leaves with a purple trim.
Constitutional Court supports emigrants who made claim for return of property
The couple emigrated in 1984 and their property was acquired by someone else.
As it wasn't possible to return their property after 1989, the couple turned to the state with a request for compensation according to the law on out-of-court rehabilitation.
The court had initially awarded them the requested amount, which was over 2.8 million crowns; however, the court of appeal altered their claim by only awarding them 90 thousand crowns, stating that damages were determined according to price regulations from 1991.
The emigrants were supported by the Supreme Court, which awarded them the original amount.
However, the Ministry of Finance, which was to pay the money, took a complaint to the Constitutional Court.
In the interim, such social and economic changes have occurred that the compensation awarded according to the statutory regulations applicable at the time, today only cover a fraction of the value of the real estate, even if, at the time, they did provide adequate coverage.
"This cannot be held against secondary parties as persons entitled under restitution law who are pursuing claims from at least 1995, and who did not have the opportunity to claim compensation before this," said judge Jaroslav Fenyk in explanation of why the Constitutional Court supported the emigrants.
"The Constitutional Court has repeatedly advocated for general courts to approach restitutional matters for any inconsistencies were not interpreted so as to be to the disadvantage of justified parties and for the goal of restitution legislation to be achieved, that is to redress the injustices relating to property that were caused by the acts of the previous totalitarian state," added the judge.
Evita now played by Radka Fišarová in Studio DVA musical
Radka Fišarová had become the youngest Evita in the world in 1998, when she played the role of Eva Perón, wife of the Argentinian dictator, at the age of twenty in the first Czech-language production of the famous musical by Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice at the Spirála theatre.
On her return to the role she says: "To this day, many productions have not come to terms with how demanding Evita is."
Evita isn't just an amazing role, it's a responsibility.
She was recommended for the role of the first lady of Argentina by Monika Absolonová.
I saw Monika in Evita three times and she was definitely an inspiration to me.
I suddenly saw a new approach here.
By and large I am a fan of modern adaptations, but this one is particularly successful.
"Ondřej Sokol's direction is original, relaxed and contemporary," says Fišarová.
The handing over of the baton between the two singers will take place at Monika Absolonová's Birthday Concert, which takes place from 7 p.m. on 27 September at the Studio DVA theatre.
The evening will culminate with excerpts from the musical Evita.
One of the great experiences will definitely be the duet of Don't Cry For Me Argentina.
In a limited number of performances, Ondřej Sokol will swop the conductor's podium for the stage, when he replaces Karel Roden in the role of president Perón during the making of a film.
Due to public interest, further performances up to May 2016 have been scheduled.
The fifth Czech production of the worldwide musical Evita has been successfully performed by the Studio DVA theatre in cooperation with The Really Useful Group Ltd.
London since February 2015.
Under director Ondřej Sokol the female lead was first played by Monika Absolonová.
She is joined by Karel Roden in the role of president Perón and Petr Strenáčik as Che.
The legendary songs by Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber, with Czech translations by Michael Prostějovský, are presented with accompanied by a live orchestra led by Kryštof Marek, who contributed to the first production at the Spirála theatre.
We mustn't panic
After losing away to the champions, Litvínov, you've also lost your home game against Sparta (3:5).
Aren't you afraid of having as bad a start to the season as last year?
I hope we won't have a repeat of that.
Čestmír Folk.
How the refugee crisis shattered the Schengen Zone
The distress flare let off by Germany didn't unite the European crew, but is now forcing the ship to change course, writes French daily Le Figaro.
The European Union decided on Monday to deal with the refugee issue in advance: now it will systematically classify migrants and asylum-seekers as soon as they set foot on the old continent, especially in Greece, in order to prevent arguments about the future division of refugees according to quotas based on numbers that are ever-further removed from reality.
Six days after President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker asked 25 of the 28 EU Member States to distribute 160 thousand refugees among themselves, the foreign ministers of Member States changed their priorities.
Rather than worry about refugees' final destination, it was now necessary to filter those arriving now and resolve the fate of those who are already inside the Schengen Zone.
"The effective management of the EU's external borders is essential in order to manage migration," emphasised the ministers in the text discussed in Brussels on Monday.
After the shared currency crisis the EU is now finding that its other major integration project is under threat.
While it may have been taken by surprise, Germany is not losing its resolve and is increasing the pressure.
It is renewing border controls, especially those with Austria, without blocking the entry of those seeking asylum in the country.
The central power in Europe is thus showing that no free movement is possible in Europe without it.
As evidence of this, Austria and Slovakia imposed the same measures on Monday.
Poland, the Netherlands, Belgium and even France are also considering them, albeit with varying levels of intensity.
Hungary imposed such measures long ago.
These exceptional, temporary measures are permitted by the rules of the Schengen Zone.
However, even a blind man can see that this is a domino effect.
A key question for Berlin and Paris is now the effective introduction of mandatory entry controls in Greece, southern Italy and Hungary for those who have already entered the interior.
Intensive negotiations about this took place between French Minister of the Interior Bernard Cazeneuve and his German counterpart Thomas de Maizière during a private discussion with their colleagues from Greece, Italy and Hungary.
While this idea is not a new one, its realisation is difficult.
According to unofficial statistics, two thirds of newly-arrived refugees have already been registered and identified, including the taking of fingerprints.
Budapest refuses to set up any entry point on its territory as it fears more than the others that it would have to deal with camps at which refugees would gather at its expense.
The real black hole in the matter remains Greece.
This year more than 200 thousand people have this year landed on its islands along the Turkish coast, twice the number that have recently arrived in Italy.
The majority of these are genuine asylum seekers who have come directly from Syria after passing through the overflowing camps in Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan.
It is an enormous, gaping hole.
Athens, which is still enduring financial collapse, has taken a back seat.
It is the starting-point for the Balkan route and a source of now joint concern for German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Hungarian premier Viktor Orbán.
Juncker's Commission promises to introduce control points as soon as possible, without stating a number or date.
"The challenges facing Greece affect the whole of Europe," agreed the EU's interior ministers on Monday on the issue of mobilisation in this regard.
The goal is to place intervention teams from the European border control agency Frontex within the country.
The EU wants to help Greece expand its capacity for the receipt of asylum-seekers and reinforce surveillance of the islands.
"Appropriate funds will be required," warns the text submitted to ministers for approval.
From a legal point of view, Athens will continue to have the final say.
The issue of the creation of true European border controls was not officially raised, although Europe is heading towards them.
In any event, the new emergency faced by the twenty-eight Member States has pushed the issue of mandatory quotas and the 160 thousand refugees, proposed by Juncker's Commission and the European Parliament at the start of the year and given strong support by Angela Merkel and French President François Hollande, to the sidelines.
Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland still refuse to entertain the idea
as they regard it as an attack on their sovereignty.
The number of refugees, but not the obligation to accept them, was retained in the text approved on Monday by the majority of Member States.
It was, however, retained as a political undertaking.
In other words, the process has been suspended.
The sole firm promise is for the redistribution of 40 thousand refugees within the next two years, which had already been agreed during the hectic EU summit in June, concludes Le Figaro.
Seven dead in avalanche in the Alps, incl. three Czechs - reports.
Three Czechs and four Germans are among seven tourists killed by an avalanche in the French Alps.
According to the authorities, the sole survivor from the eight-person group was a woman from Germany.
Previous media reports had stated that she was Polish.
The woman, aged around thirty, was admitted to hospital in the town of Briancon with a serious injury to the thigh-bone area.
According to AFP the dead were primarily in their forties.
"The rescue mission has now ended and the bodies of the victims have been taken to Briancon for identification," stated Pierre Besnard, prefect of the departement Hautes-Alpes.
The accident occurred around noon in the mountainous Pelvoux region below the peak of the 4,015 metre-high Dôme de Neige des Ecrins.
"The sudden avalanche was 250 metres wide and about a metre high," said the head of the rescue team, Nicolas Colombani.
The eight-person group was hit by a massive quantity of snow at a height of about 3,900 metres, he continued.
The meteorological service today warned of unfavourable weather conditions in the region.
Trpišovský ahead of Braga game: Finally the real Europe
On his European debut, Liberec coach Jindřich Trpišovský got through the Europa League qualifying rounds to reach the group stages and is now looking forward to experiencing real European competition with the team.
In the first match in the main phase of the competition, Liberec host 2011 finalists Braga, on whom they want to, according to the coach, impose their playing style.
After all the nerves in the knock-out games on your way to the group stages, where every goal and every situation could knock you out, we're here now and we'll play six matches.
Obviously we want to win, but we don't have to worry about every goal we concede, we can play to our tactics and we're not bound by a normal knock-out tie.
"I'm really looking forward to it and it's real European competition - before it was just qualification," said Trpišovský at the press conference.
He considers Braga a top team.
They'll be very active and all their players are Brazilian, Portuguese or Spanish and good on the ball.
Our opponents will probably be all the more difficult because they don't have any big names in their squad, but they have a player who scored three goals against Manchester United I think.
"They're an excellent team, one of the top teams," stated Trpišovský.
However, he doesn't consider Braga the clear favourite.
The way I see it, we're playing at home, so we're definitely not underdogs.
"I think that we've showed, both in the league and in the qualifying rounds, that we are strong at home, and we want to confirm that," said the coach, whose team has lost only the season-opening Supercup against Plzeň out of its eleven games this season.
He believes that Liberec will be able to impose its playing style on Braga, too.
We'll be playing a team that will be strong on the ball, while being at the same time, for them, almost atypically disciplined.
They play a 4-4-2 system with a rapid transition to attack.
"They're very hard opponents. We did discover some weaknesses, but the most important thing will be what our players do on the pitch," said Trpišovský.
In the qualifying rounds we studied our opponents a lot, which helped us a lot, and this time we want to focus on our game, to which we've adapted our training.
"And we definitely want the game to be played on our terms, even though it'll be very demanding," he added.
Student films take over Písek; start of international festival.
Over 351 authors from 51 countries have entered their works into this year's 15th edition of the International Student Film Festival in Písek.
The forty films selected for the final by the jury, composed of students and teachers, will be screened in the Portyč cinema from 15 to 18 October.
The best of these will be chosen by an international jury, says festival spokesman Jakub Charvát.
Every year the festival has its own theme, based on the festival's theme tune.
This year the theme is detective stories.
The director of this year's gala evenings, Richard Blumenfeld, plans to combine elements of television, film and theatre in them.
"And obviously we have to solve the crime that was committed in this year's trailer," says Charvát.
Visitors will see a selection of the most interesting student films - live-action, animated and documentaries.
Films will be judged by an international jury including, for example, last year's winner, director Miklas Manneke, Spanish director Claudio Niubo and British producer Hemant Sharda.
As with every year, the festival will include a supporting programme of events.
Visitors will be able to see Wattican Punk Ballet from Armenia, singer Ondřej Ruml, professional didgeridoo player Ondřej Smeykal, turbochanson group Poletíme?, playful group Zrní and Petra Hapková with a recital of "Život na baru".
The festival will also include two photography exhibitions.
The first will feature Jana Ašenbrennerová, a graduate of the Písek film school and winner of prestigious awards, including World Press Photo 2014.
The second exhibition will convey the atmosphere in Nepal following the tragic earthquake.
There will be a talk with visitors featuring cameraman and documentary film-maker Martin Čech, the silent film "The Cameraman" will be accompanied by the music of Gerhard Gruber and Písek natives Brukner, Novotný and Hlack will launch their new book "3 kamarádi z města P" ('3 friends from the town of P.') in the studio of sculptor Jan Novotný.
This year we will also remember Miroslav Ondříček, patron of the Miroslav Ondříček Film Academy (FAMO) in Písek, who recently passed away.
Our school and festival are his ongoing legacy.
"Young people from all over the world will continue to gather here, share their experiences among each other and develop their mutual ties and the craft of film," said the spokesman.
This process will also be aided by the Pitching forum, where students will be able to meet film professionals, take part in several work auditions at once and get work.
The festival is associated with the creation of the Private College of Film-making in Písek.
Its founders, Vladana and Miloň Terč, organised the first edition in 1997.
Up until the sixth edition it took place once every two years.
Insurance companies to meet client claims in full if travel agencies go bankrupt.
Insurance companies are to meet client claims to their full amount in the event of travel agencies going bankrupt,
following a decision taken on Wednesday by the Chamber of Deputies, which has passed a modified amendment to the act on conditions for doing business in the tourism industry.
According to the document which now goes to the Senate for evaluation, travel agencies will be able to replace insurance against bankruptcy with a bank guarantee.
Insurance companies disagree with the obligation to meet client claims even above the agreed limit.
The Ministry for Regional Development continues to insist upon the amendment, arguing in terms of consumer protection.
Insurance companies have already threatened to stop insuring travel agencies if the amendment is passed.
However, the proposal is facing criticism from travel agencies, too,
as without insurance they will have to either close or go abroad.
Minister for Regional Development Karla Karla Šlechtová (ANO) pointed out that cases where insurance companies do not meet claims in full go against European law,
and highlighted this year's ruling by the Constitutional Court, which confirmed that clients are entitled to receive full refunds irrespective of insurance limit.
Šlechtová emphasised that insurance companies would receive sufficient information on the running of travel agencies and would be able to set the correct limit.
"While we appreciate the effort to increase consumer protection, it must have such a limit as to be feasible," countered TOP 09 deputy chairman Miroslav Kalousek.
Kalousek claims that bank guarantees won't work as no-one will give unlimited guarantees.
"Travel agencies will have to either close down or move abroad," he warned.
Based on a survey of member travel agencies, member of the presidium of the Association of Travel Agencies and Tour Operators of the Czech Republic Tomio Okamura did not agree with Kalousek's fears.
"Stop lobbying for the insurance companies," he said.
Okamura does not consider the insurance companies' statement to be relevant, and according to him, no such written, official statement to this effect exists.
They will, however, determine whether travel agencies will be able to make some contribution, which would not, according to Okamura, be a problem.
Also warning against the provision was Jana Fischerová (ODS), who highlighted the point of view of the competing Association of Czech Travel Agents, and her party colleague Petr Bendl, who talked of pulling the rug from under travel agencies' feet.
According to Fischerová, travel agencies would not be able to negotiate insurance.
"Consumer protection works," judges Fischerová.
Her proposal to delete the disputed passage was not passed by the Chamber of Deputies.
Also unsuccessful was Vojtěch Filip (KSČM), whose proposal to return the document to the committee stage due to an alleged conflict with the Civil Code did not pass, either.
Filip highlighted the tour operators, who he said could threaten the consumer.
Following the ruling of the Constitutional Court, Martina Berdychová (ANO), who tabled the motion, withdrew her proposal, which would limit the liability of insurance companies in cases where they could not know that premiums did not cover the entire risk.
The amendment will not contain the originally proposed minimum four-million crown insurance limit for travel agencies offering tours using air travel, or the million-crown limit for agencies selling e.g. coach tours.
The limit will remain at 30 percent of planned takings from the sale of tours.
However, the insurance limit will have to be such that travel agencies can cover the entirety of clients' claims in the event of bankruptcy.
Even after these modifications the law will require that tour operators now state which travel agency is organising tours that have been sold.
Before agreeing an insurance policy, travel agencies will have to submit to insurance companies data on their economic management and number tours, among other data.
The approved amendatory proposal by the public administration also anticipates the giving of further information to insurance companies.
Every month travel agencies will have to submit data on the number of travellers and tours sold, the total price of tours sold and the amount of deposits and takings from tours and vouchers.
Should the Ministry of Regional Development find that a travel agency has not met a legal obligation towards an insurance company, it will, according to the proposal, request that the agency remedy the situation or will be permitted to bar it from agreeing new contracts in the event that such a breach of its obligations could threaten the interests of customers.
The amendment is also to address the funding of the mountain rescue service.
The Ministry of Regional Development will determine the level of subsidy provided to the mountain rescue service based on the service's application for the next year's funding, which is to be submitted by the end of April.
The application will contain a report on the use made of state funds in the previous year, a financial expenditure plan and the outlook over the next two years.
However, according to the association the submitter did not take into account the situation that would arise if an insurance company terminated a contract with a travel agency.
The agency would then not be able to organise tours and clients who had bought tours prior to the termination of the contract would, according to the Association, lose their tours.
In such a case, the travel agency would suffer a significant loss and may even go bust, even if its finances were in good condition.
One of the options for travel agencies to cope with such a situation would be to pursue claims for damages against the state.
Another option would be to leave the Czech Republic and enjoy the much less stringent conditions abroad, while only operating in the Czech Republic as agencies, says Association deputy chairman Jan Papež.
While the draft amendment also incorporates bank guarantees, the idea is so badly thought-out that it would not be feasible in practice as bank guarantees cannot be given for unlimited amounts.
Furthermore, according to the Association a change in current practice is effectively superfluous.
Due to a new EU Directive the law will have to be revised within a period of two years.
A total of 942 active, insured travel agencies are currently active on the Czech market.
This year only three travel agencies closed down.
Every year Czech travel agencies sell tours to a total value of twenty billion crowns.
Merkel: We must improve conditions in the Middle East
The European Union must promote the improvement of humanitarian conditions in refugee camps in Jordan and Lebanon to reduce the number of refugees coming to Europe.
This was contained in a statement by Angela Merkel following discussions with German state premiers.
At the same time she again appealed for the distribution of refugees who have already arrived in the EU among member states.
We must give more assistance to the countries from which refugees are coming or in which they stay when they leave their home country.
I expect a signal from the European Union that we promote dignified conditions in refugee camps, for example in Jordan and Lebanon, said the German Chancellor, according to whom such a signal could be increased financial aid or closer cooperation between the EU and humanitarian organisations.
"The German States also support the German government in promoting the fair distribution of the burden of the refugee crisis among the countries of Europe," stated Merkel.
In relation to this, Brandenburg prime minister Dietmar Woidke stated at the press conference that he expected true solidarity from all EU member states.
The Czech Republic, among others, is one of the countries that has, for some time now, rejected the quota-based distribution of refugees.
Merkel and Woidke also spoke in favour of the acceleration of asylum proceedings in Germany.
People must know as soon as possible whether they have a chance to stay here.
This is also required by the authorities so that they can start with the integration of foreigners earlier, said the Brandenburg premier.
According to Woidke it is also necessary for the majority of money spent by Germany ion care for refugees to be put towards the integration of those who have a chance of gaining asylum.
More teachers will be required to teach refugees German.
It is a considerable challenge for my country, but I believe that, if we are successful in integrating refugees, then they can be an asset to us, he said.
More hospital beds possible in Karlovy Vary Region
According to deputy governor of the Karlovy Vary Region Jakub Pánik (ČSSD), the current bed capacity of two regional hospitals and two private hospitals in the region is sufficient and partial modifications should be implemented on the basis of agreements between the departments of individual hospitals.
However, in the region there are options for expanding the care offered.
For example, single-day surgery centres for the performance of procedures not requiring hospital stays of longer than 24 hours could be set up in surgical units.
It is not yet clear in which specific hospitals single-day surgery centres could be set up.
The skin department of Karlovy Vary Hospital could see the creation of a laser centre with the option of using laser technology to treat skin disease.
The concept also recommended the setup of an apallic centre for the treatment of patients with brain disease who are in a vegetative state.
Such a centre would be centrally managed and should form an integral part of the Anaesthesiology and Resuscitation department.
There is also the option of concentrating such a facility at Ostrov Hospital, where a similar facility already exists.
A further area where capacity seems insufficient are the after-care wards, and chiefly the Long-term Care Clinics (LCC) in Nejdek, whose capacity is insufficient and should primarily connect with acute care wards.
The concept recommends that part of this facility function as a rehabilitation ward and part as a classic LCC ward.
As it notes, after-care wards are chiefly absent in Karlovy Vary Hospital,
where buildings left empty following centralisation could be used.
Last but not least, the Karlovy Vary Region lacks social care wards focusing on the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
As there is a lack of such wards across the whole country, it could also serve other regions as an 'Alzheimer centre'.
According to the recommendations, hospitals should prepare for the introduction of so-called follow-up wards that would be funded through European subsidies.
"These are beds that would follow on from super-specialised medical care fields and create space for the transfer of patients following, for example, a cardiological, neurological, transplantation or other procedure," states the regional concept for care wards.
New services could also be offered in psychiatric care.
České dráhy has invested over 31 billion in the modernisation of carriages.
They are now equipped with air conditioning and new toilets.
Over the past six years, the state-owned rail operator has invested over 31 billion Czech crowns in the upgrade of train carriages.
One-third of the carriages is currently equipped with air conditioning, and roughly one-half of trains has a closed toilet system.
Save for 2012, the annual amounts spent on modernisation have been steadily decreasing.
Over the past six years, Czech Railways invested over 31 billion in the modernisation of carriages.
The state-owned carrier operates over two thousand locomotives, electric and diesel units and about 2,130 passenger carriages.
As a result of the investment, the average age of locomotives and separate units has been reduced by two years and that of conventional carriages by six years.
With 60 percent, the carrier spent a larger portion of the investment on regional transport, with 40 percent going into the upgrade of long-distance carriages.
The average age of locomotives and units currently stands at 19 years.
However, upgraded older carriages are counted towards the indicator as brand new.
Without the upgraded vehicles, the average age of traction vehicles of ČD would increase by ten years.
The average age of passenger carriages tends to be higher. If the upgraded carriages are counted, the average age is 23 years.
However, taking into account only the age based on the date of manufacture, the average age of these carriages would be 33.4 years.
Conventional trains consisting of carriages and hauled by locomotives are gradually disappearing from railways not only in the Czech Republic but worldwide and replaced by motorised or electric-powered units.
Between 2011 and 2015, the number of locomotives decreased from 280 to 223 units, and the number of conventional carriages dropped from 2,716 in 2011 to 2,132 in the middle of this year.
The railway operator is mainly getting rid of older carriages fitted with faux leather seats and without a locking system to prevent doors from opening when the train is moving.
From January to July, the operator has had 110 of these carriages scrapped.
The rolling stock investment of ČD includes, for example, the purchase of 50 carriages for speeds up to 200 kilometres per hour, which the operator plans to use on the line Prague - Bratislava - Budapest, or a master agreement for the purchase of electric-powered units for domestic express railway links.
Under the contract, it plans to purchase up to 30 motorised units and up to 20 electric-powered units.
The authorities have known about illegal advertising for several months but they seem powerless to stop it.
The authorities themselves admitted as much.
The editorial staff of the online news provider Aktuálně.cz has been following the story of a billboard in southern Bohemia, which now woos motorists to visit Lipno to take a stroll among the treetops or through the Olympic park.
The motorway operators know that it is there illegally, but claim there is nothing they can do about it.
There are hundreds, perhaps thousands of similar ads all across the country.
Officials blame a weak law, which does not provide for the immediate removal of illegal billboards,
and having to go through a bureaucratic exercise first.
What happens in the meantime is that the company changes its name and evades the authorities.
Alternatively, the company moves the billboard by a few meters, and the authorities have to start again from square one.
The Road and Motorway Directorate admitted a few months ago that there was an illegal billboard on their property near the busy national road between České Budějovice and the Lipno dam.
Even in three months, the officials have not managed to have the illegal portable construction and the giant advertisement taken down.
It seems as if nobody cared that it was standing right next to the road, in the fifty-metre protection zone, which must be kept free for safety reasons.
Road operators argue that they cannot deal with the billboard because of legal loopholes.
An option would be simply to load in onto a truck and take it away.
"This is not something we can just go ahead and do" said the spokeswoman of the Road and Motorway Directorate, Nina Ledvinová referring to a complex bureaucratic process which must be followed before the billboard can be removed.
The case of this particular billboard, the fate of which Aktuálně.cz started monitoring in spring, is not unique and points to a general problem which the authorities are unable to handle effectively and efficiently.
In South Bohemia alone, the editorial staff found dozens of similar portable adverts located illegally alongside the road or in its close proximity.
The situation in other regions is similar.
"We find it difficult to force companies to remove the billboards," said the head of the transport department of the regional authority in České Budějovice Jiří Klása, whose colleagues are handling similar cases.
According to Klása, loopholes in the law which ties the hands of officials are to blame.
First, they are required to contact the billboard owners in a bureaucratic way to remove the advert.
The bosses of the companies are often impossible to get hold of or they use the trick, Aktuálně.cz already reported on when they looked into the matter: move the portable stand with advert just a few metres away and the order to remove the illegal billboard is not worth the paper it is written on.
This is because the authority is required to specify the location of the illegal billboard.
"If someone moves it and the coordinates change it is considered to be a new billboard, and we have to approach the owner again," said Klasa.
A new law will not help us in this instance.
The situation could change with a new law, which will ban billboards next to motorways and reduce their numbers near to first-class roads.
Critics point out that the rules for combating illegal and portable adverts will remain the same as before.
This will not really help the authorities.
Companies can continue renting out illegal advertising space and make tens to hundreds million Czech crowns a year and get away with it.
For example, the billboard promoting Lipno is owned by Commerz Billboard.
Officials are familiar with this company as the municipality of České Budějovice is currently conducting three separate administrative proceedings against the company for illegal billboards.
The company could be fined up to three hundred thousand Czech crowns in each case.
This concerns a number of adverts placed illegally within the protection zone of a class 1 road.
The proceedings have not yet been completed, said Jaroslav Mráz, said the head of the transport department of the municipality of České Budějovice.
While the billboard followed by Aktuálně.cz is not yet among these cases, this is likely to change soon.
According to the spokeswoman of the Road and Motorway Directorate, Nina Ledvinová, the company does not respond to repeated written demands and the case will in all likelihood land on the table of regional and later municipal authorities.
Commerz Billboard is among the suspicious companies that are difficult to contact.
The company does not collect its mail and it has closed its official headquarters in Žižkov more than six years ago.
It is also not clear who is behind this company.
In the past, the company's mail was sent to the South Bohemian entrepreneur Anton Fischer, whose claim to fame is the bitter dispute with the head of the Czech representation of Hyundai.
Fischer, whose company Euro Billboard rents space from Comerz Billboard and offers it to advertisers, has, however, denied having any connection to it.
Yet this spring, when the Road and Motorway Directorate started to look into the Lipno billboard case at the initiative of Aktuálně.cz, Fischer had the government officials send a letter to the mysterious company Commerz Billboard to his guest house, where the company is said to have its new address.
The motorway operators have not had any luck with contacting the company at this address either.
This seems to be a futile exercise.
Lack of transparency with respect to the change of addresses are not uncommon..
A few years ago, we fined one company two million Czech crowns in total.
The company then changed its company ID number, and that was it.
The bailiff returned the case, the billboards were still there, maybe in other locations.
We are quite powerless against such companies and their business practices.
It is like fighting windmills, admitted one of the officials on condition of anonymity.
Nobody is yet looking to amend the law.
Aktuálně.cz spoke with several MPs, who have shown interest in the problem,
but so far we have not seen any action from them.
In contrast, there are now MPs, who want to extend the period for keeping the billboards next to major Czech roads.
The government has rejected it.
Billboards are a sensitive topic for many politicians on national, regional and local level, and they are often torn over the issue.
On the one hand, they know that people want to see less of them, but on the other, they themselves need them for election campaign advertising.
I do not share the relatively widespread view that the universal remedy when something does not work is to change the law.
Statisticians estimate that this year, farmers will harvest less grain and more rapeseed and poppy.
According to the estimates of the Czech Statistical Office, the grain harvest will be 6.7 percent lower compared to last year.
This year's harvest will still be higher than the average over the past five to ten years.
In contrast, the harvest of rapeseed and poppy is expected to increase by 3.9 and 2.5 percent, respectively.
The harvest of grains will be 6.7 percent lower than last year.
Farmers are expected to harvest 7.2 million tonnes of grain.
This follows from the estimate as at 15 July, released by the Czech Statistical Office.
The initial estimate released a month ago was more pessimistic as it assumed a 10 percent drop compared to last year.
Last year's harvest of cereals was above average.
This year's harvest exceeds the average for the last five to ten years.
In contrast, the harvest of rapeseed and the poppy is expected to be higher this year.
This year, the rapeseed harvest is expected to be 3.9 percent higher than the 1.256 million tonnes harvested last year.
This year's poppy harvest could increase by 2.5 percent year-on-year.
The projected decline in grain harvest is due to a decrease in planted areas as well as a reduction in the yield per hectare by 3.7 percent to 5.71 tonnes per hectare.
This year, planted areas decreased by three percent.
The harvest of winter wheat, which is the most important grain in the Czech Republic, is expected to drop by 3.3 this year.
This is despite the fact that the areas planted under winter wheat have increased.
The decline is due to a lower yield per hectare, which is expected to drop to 6.04 tonnes.
Czech Statistical Office projects roughly a one-fifth decline in spring barley, which is mainly used in the production of beer.
This is attributable to a 15.2 percent reduction in planted areas and a lower per hectare yield.
In contrast, the harvest of winter barley is estimated to grow by 6.3 percent.
The rye harvest is also expected to be higher year-on-year.
The Czech Statistical Office estimates rapeseed harvest to increase year-on-year to 1.305 million tonnes,
on the back of a 7.3 percent increase in planted areas.
However, the yield per hectare will be about 3.2 percent lower than last year.
This year's rapeseed harvest is projected to be 13.3 percent higher than the ten-year average, on the back of a one-third increase in planted areas.
The area planted with poppy seed has also increased over the past four years
to reach 35,543 hectares this year.
Compared to 2008, when poppy seed was planted on a record area of 70,000 hectares, the planted area has halved.
Thanks to the increase in sown areas, this year's poppy harvest is expected to be a success.
It will increase compared to last year by 2.5 percent to 27,423 tons.
The yield per hectare will be about 6.1 percent lower.
The police in Olomouc arrested two men for an assault with a knife and machete, and the court ordered to take them into custody.
The police arrested two men, who on Tuesday attacked a thirty-five-year-old man with a knife and a machete.
"Although the victim tried to escape, he suffered stabbing and cutting wounds which required hospital treatment and further rehabilitation," said the police spokeswoman Marie Štrbáková.
The perpetrators were arrested by the police immediately after the attack.
The prosecutor filed a detention order which was upheld by the court on Friday.
The men could spend between three and ten years in prison.
The police arrested two men detained on suspicion of attacking a thirty-five-year-old man with a knife and a machete in the centre of Olomouc.
The attackers inflicted stabbing and cutting wounds on the victim, who required hospital treatment.
According to the police, the attack was preceded by an incident between two groups of people on Tuesday noon at třída Svobody.
The perpetrators ended up in custody, said Marie Štrbáková, the spokeswoman of Olomouc police.
This was preceded by a mass scuffle between two families outside the bar trattoria near the centre of Olomouc.
Following an aggressive altercation, two men attacked a thirty-five-year-old man with a knife and a machete.
Although the victim tried to escape, he suffered stabbing and cutting wounds which required hospital treatment and further rehabilitation," said the police spokeswoman.
The skirmish, which attracted a lot of attention in the city centre as several police units had to intervene at the scene, was the result of a family dispute.
Detectives arrested a thirty four-year-old man from Slovakia and a thirty-seven-year-old man from Olomouc on suspicion of attempted grievous bodily harm and disorderly conduct.
The prosecutor filed a detention order which was upheld by the court on Friday, added the spokeswoman.
Five years ago, a machete was used in another attack, during a mass brawl just a few dozen meters away, before the disco Varna in Riegrova ulice.
According to the police, a group of roughly ten armed foreigners attacked guests of a restaurant who stood in front of the entrance.
According to the police, they were holding knives, sticks and machetes.
Two of the foreign attackers received a suspended sentence.
Abandoned and vacant buildings in the centre of Prague.
You may be surprised to find that you walk pass them every day.
One of the most striking examples of an unused and empty building are the large former headquarters of IPB in the middle of Senovážné náměstí,
which was supposed to be turned into a hotel.
So far, there has not been any progress.
We often hear how important it is to build new flats and offices in the capital.
Would it not make more sense to take advantage of existing buildings, which are often protected because of their architectural or historical merit?
Right in the centre of Prague in the immediate vicinity of Václavské náměstí, there are several blocks of flats which remain empty despite their premium location, size and heritage status.
We have identified these properties in the city centre with the help of the project Prázdnédomy.cz, which maps long-term empty properties in the Czech Republic.
The buildings are usually the victims of financial problems of their owners, non-transparent relationships between companies, or they are owned by the state, which is unable or unwilling to dispose of them.
The number of empty buildings in the Czech Republic exceeds the number of homeless people.
The initiative wants their owners to be liable for a special tax on these buildings.
This is where they almost succeeded in shooting Fidel Castro; Hitler's brother also lived here.
Writers showed us a different Malá Strana.
Shopping apocalypse.
Deserted shopping centres in the US.
On a walk through unknown Prague.
Karlín was a luxury suburb.
According to an architect, its regional plan resembles Manhattan in New York.
The Clintons made 10.6 million dollars last year.
Trump refuses to release his tax returns.
Hillary Clinton and her husband, the former President Bill Clinton earned 10.6 million dollars last year.
The Clintons donated more than one million dollars to charity.
Most of the Clintons' income - over six million dollars - was earned in paid speeches.
Trump refuses to publish his tax returns.
The Democratic Party's nominee for president, Hillary Clinton published her tax returns on Friday, increasing the pressure on her Republican rival Donald Trump to do the same.
According to AP, Hillary Clinton and her husband, the former President Bill Clinton earned 10.6 million dollars last year.
Most of the Clintons' income - over six million dollars - was earned in paid speeches made before April 2015, when Clinton launched her presidential campaign.
Their tax return shows that the Clintons' paid an effective federal income tax rate of 34.2 percent and an effective state and local income tax rate of 9 percent.
In total, they paid an effective combined income tax rate of 43.2 percent.
Trump has so far refused to publish to take this step and publish his tax returns.
There is a possibility that Donald Trump does not pay any taxes, Clinton tweeted a few minutes after releasing her tax returns.
According to AP, Hillary Clinton has repeatedly talked about the secrecy surrounding Trump's income not least to raise doubts, whether her opponent is really as rich as he claims.
Trump is said to be worth billions of dollars.
Lower net worth would damage the reputation of the Republican candidate as a successful businessman.
Senator Tim Kaine, the vice-presidential candidate and the former first lady's running mate, today released his tax returns for the past ten years.
Together with his wife Anne Holton, he donated 7.5 percent of his income to charity and paid an effective income tax rate last year of 25.6 percent.
Polio makes a return in Nigeria.
The Islamist militants from Boko Haram are against vaccinations and are blamed for killing doctors involved in the vaccination programme.
Polio cases have resurfaced in Nigeria.
In the northeast of the country, the government launched an emergency polio vaccination campaign in response of two infected children having been paralysed.
The vaccines were delivered by helicopters.
The Islamist terrorist group Boko Haram, which is active in the area, was against the vaccinations and resorted even to killing doctors.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the virus circulated there undetected.
In the northeast of Nigeria, the government is planning to launch an emergency polio vaccination campaign in response of two infected children having been paralysed.
In Africa, polio was last diagnosed in Somalia two years ago.
The Nigerian government planning on immunizing one million children in the state of Borno and another four million in the neighbouring states.
AP reported that Nigerian military helicopters delivered the polio vaccines quickly to the north-eastern part of the country, where the Islamist terrorist group Boko Haram operates.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the virus has been circulating in the area undetected for many years.
The extremist group Boko Haram is against vaccinations and it is blamed for killing doctors involved in the vaccination programme.
On Thursday, their attacks also prevented doctors from getting to the areas where the children were diagnosed with polio.
Both affected babies come with refugees from parts of Nigeria newly freed from Boko Haram.
The Director of polio eradication at WHO told BBC that the immunisation in Nigeria will start as early as next week.
The radical Islamic group Boko Haram operated in the state of Borno for a long time.
International organisations and the government only gained access to the area at the beginning of this year after Boko Haram suffered considerable setbacks in this area.
Nigerian Health Minister Isaac Adewole admitted that new cases of polio are a big disappointment for the country because Nigeria wanted to announce next year that polio was eradicated.
WHO pointed out that could have been spreading among children undetected for two years.
The vaccination programme is for children under five years of age.
In 2012, Nigeria accounted for half of all new polio cases in the world.
The number of countries in which polio is endemic has decreased from 125 countries in 1988 to three areas - Afghanistan, Pakistan and northern Nigeria.
Pope met with former prostitutes in Rome.
He listened to the moving stories of the women.
Pope Francis met with twenty former prostitutes who escaped from the gang of pimps with the help of the police.
The Pope listened to their difficult life stories and urged them to look to the future with confidence.
Pope Francis wanted to use this meeting to draw attention to human trafficking and to call for stepping up the fight against it.
The Pope met with twenty former prostitutes who were freed from the gang of pimps by the police.
According to the Vatican spokesman, the head of the Catholic Church listened to the moving stories of the women for more than an hour and called on them to look to the future with confidence.
Among the former prostitutes who visited Pope Francis, six women were from Romania, four from Albania, seven from Nigeria and one each from Tunisia, Italy and Ukraine.
The average age of the women was 30.
According to the Vatican, all these women were forced into prostitution and subjected to physical violence.
The Pope wanted to use this meeting to draw attention to human trafficking and to call for stepping up the fight against it, said the Pope's spokesman.
Pope Francis often draws attention to the fate of people on the margins of society.
On Thursday, for example, he had lunch with Syrian refugees who arrived in the Vatican in April and in June on his invitation.
France plans tough action against breeding grounds for jihadists.
They need the assistance from the Muslim community for the measures to work.
The Muslim community is expected to assist the French government in the fight against radical Islamism.
The government of the Prime Minister Manuel Valls is preparing fundamental changes with respect to mosques and the education of clergy.
Since last December, we shut down 20 mosques and places of worship.
and other will follow, said the interior minister.
The country has over one hundred breeding grounds for jihadists.
"If Muslims will not help the Republic to fight against those who undermine public freedoms, it will be increasingly hard for the Republic to guarantee their freedom of worship," said Prime Minister Manuel Valls.
In particular, he intends to ensure that only imams trained in France are allowed to practice in mosques and other places of worship.
At the same time he wants to stop the funding of mosques from abroad.
Currently, around 20 percent of the funds for the construction of new mosques comes from abroad, mainly Morocco, Algeria and the Gulf states.
This is one of the ways how preachers get to spread radical agendas in mosques.
"Our country must show that Islam is compatible with democracy," he added.
The key to ensuring these objectives are met should be the new French Islamic foundation,
which should act as a bridge between the secular state and the Muslim minority.
No more money from abroad.
The country already has a “Foundation for Islam of France”, which was founded in 2005 by former Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin
with the objective to make the financial flows between mosques and countries that that fund their construction more transparent.
The institution was soon hit by internal divisions and rivalries.
"It is a total failure," said Valls recently.
In the aftermath of the attack on the Charlie Hebdo magazine in January 2015, a debate over a new institution that would replace the largely defunct foundation ignited the French political scene.
This urgency has been augmented by further terrorist attacks in France carried out by radicalised Islamists in the name of the Islamic State.
The French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve recently said that the new foundation will be created as early as in October this year.
It will have two main tasks - to ensure that mosques are funded from domestic sources and to monitor imams.
How the construction of new mosques and various educational centres will be funded is not yet clear
as several proposals are being considered.
One of them is a special fee or tax on halal food,
which would in practice be paid by the vendors of halal food for certification.
Part of this money would then go to the foundation.
Another option would be for French pilgrims heading to Mecca to pay a contribution of ten to twenty euros (an equivalent of 270 - 540 Czech crowns).
Every year, around 30,000 French Muslims go on this pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia.
But this is not all.
According to the Prime Minister, there should only be preachers in mosques in the future who have gone through special educational programmes at French universities.
This is designed to ensure that sermons are compatible with democracy.
We will shut down radical mosques.
The French government is currently on the war path against militants,
and others will follow, announced recently the interior minister.
There is no place in France for those who preach hatred and do not respect the principles of our country, such as equality between women and men.
It is estimated that there are around 2,500 mosques and places of worship in the country,
of which some 120 are thought to be under the influence of radical Islam.
Since 2012, authorities have expelled about 80 of Imams and dozens are currently under consideration.
Not everyone is convinced, however, that the French government's steps will make a significant contribution in the fight against radicalism.
Those who want to be radicalized will do so anyway,
because it is not happening in mosques. Young people are being radicalized on the internet, said Severine Labat, a specialist from the National Centre of Scientific Research.
The track cyclist Kelemen lost in the first round of the sprint against the French star Bauge.
To advance to the 1/8 finals, the Czech cyclist will have to do well in the repechage heat.
Having qualified among the top eighteen for the sprint event at the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, the track cyclist Pavel Kelemen lost in the first round duel against the French star Grégory Baugé, the defending silver medallist from the games in London.
To advance to the 1/8 finals, he will have to do well in the repechage heat.
Of the 27 cyclists who started in this event, the top Czech track cyclist finished with the fourteenth-best
200m flying lap of 9.969 seconds.
In the round of 16 he was beaten by the French cyclist Baugé, who qualified in the fifth place and already has a bronze from the team sprint event in Rio.
While Kelemen, was trying to chase after the experienced Frenchman, he made sure to advance in the next round.
Jason Kenny, the defending champion from London, shone again with an excellent performance.
The twenty-eight year old Briton rode the third fastest 200m flying lap in history, winning the qualification in a new Olympic record of 9,551.
It was, therefore, relatively easy for him to defeat as expected Maximilian Levy, who qualified in the last place.
The GB men's pursuit quartet, which included Bradley Wiggins, has also done well as it finished the 4km race in a world record of 3:50.570 and advanced to the finals.
They have managed to improve their previous personal best (3:51.659), which they held for four years from the Olympic Games in London by more than one second.
Judge refuses to deal with the case because of Tluchoř's wife.
Petr Tluchoř is one of three MPs who have been accused by the prosecution service of taking bribes in the form of lucrative positions from the then Prime Minister Nečas and his former chief of staff Jana Nagyova in return for a political concession.
The MPs Šnajdr, Fuksa and Tluchoř facilitated the passing of tax legislation
by resigning from the Parliament,
only to reappear in influential positions at state-owned companies.
This is why they were suspected of bribery and spent one month behind bars.
The court subsequently ruled that this was illegal and they received compensation amounting to nearly 2 million Czech crowns.
Following the intervention of the Supreme Court, Tluchoř is now acting as a witness in the case.
His wife works in the courthouse at Ovocný trh, where she handles civil disputes.
Still, the Judge Helena Králová (editor's note: Ms Králová is a judge for criminal matters) want to be careful to prevent any possible objections.
The case will, therefore, be likely handled by a different judicial district in Prague.
This is despite the fact that Ms Králová has twice acquitted Jana Nečasová, formerly Nagyová
for the alleged misuse of military intelligence to surveil the first wife of Prime Minister Nečas.
Tluchoř was not involved in this case.
According to the lawyer, Jaroslav Ortman, this is an unnecessary knee-jerk reaction.
I think that the principle of impartiality should not be interpreted in a way that would exclude a court if a witness's spouse or relative works at the courthouse.
I am afraid that this would preclude almost any prosecution, he said in a newspaper interview.
"I find it completely over the top," he added.
Mr Tluchoř's co-accused in this case of political cronyism is Roman Boček, a former official.
According to his lawyer, Petr Toman, a potential objection may have a chance to succeed.
On 13 June, the District Court for Prague 1 discussed the indictment of the former chief of staff of the Prime Minister Petr Nečas, Jana Nagyová (today Nečasová) and the other accused in the case of misuse of military intelligence.
Ms Nečasová is pictured arriving at the court with her husband.
Ms Tluchořová was meant to judge statements about Peroutka.
The wife of the former MP was, for example, scheduled to judge a case involving the statements of the Czech President, Miloš Zeman about the democratic pre-war journalist Ferdinand Peroutka.
Zeman said about him that he was a Hitler sympathiser.
One of the schoolgirls is dead!
The girl appears to have died in an air strike of the allied forces.
The schoolgirl travelled to Syria with her two same-aged friends in February last year from London's Gatwick Airport.
The UK Home Office has not commented on the report of her death.
According to the police, the young Londoners who ran away from home, were secretly taken to Syria across the Turkish border.
According to the media, Shamima Begum, Amira Abase and Kadiza Sultana went to Syria to join their former schoolfriend from London's Bethnal Green Academy.
The case has received considerable attention and led to tension in relations between the UK and Turkey.
The UK's security services estimate that around 600 British Muslims, including some 50 young women and girls have travelled to Syria so far.
Many of them have joined the IS militants and other groups.
Those who return home present a terrorist threat to the UK.
A dream job for six figure salary.
A well-paid job without a university degree.
This is the job of an IT specialist at first sight
and often the second.
The advantage is not only the extremely high salary by Czech standards (in Prague, IT specialists can make up to CZK 180,000), but also very attractive benefits.
The reason is the enormous shortage of IT specialists.
The economy needs thousands of IT experts
It is estimated that the Czech Republic needs 20,000 IT specialists.
According to the recruitment agency Grafton, most sought-after are programmers, developers, network engineers and application specialists.
Candidates can choose from several job offers.
The demand is considerably higher than the supply and employers compete for candidates, said Jitka Součková, the marketing manager of Grafton Recruitment.
University is not a must.
Higher education is not a must for IT professionals.
Higher education is a good foundation and overall indicator of intelligence and education of the candidate, but it does not tend to have much in common with the knowledge of development.
Developers must constantly learn new things, which cannot be substituted by just completing a university, says Petr Kubačka, director of Monster Career CZ.
IT professionals earn the highest salaries in Prague.
IT professional salaries are everywhere well above the national average.
The highest salaries are paid in Prague and Brno. The salaries in the regions are somewhat lagging behind.
The salary levels in Brno are comparable with those in Prague," says Kubačka.
The highest salaries are earned by technical directors.
In Prague and Brno, they can make between CZK 120 000 and CZK 180 000.
In other regions, the salaries are lower, but they still do not drop below CZK 80 000.
IT project managers are also in demand.
Upon joining, that can make between CZK 60 000 and CZK 100 000.
Graduates are also in demand
While some graduates have no choice but to go straight to the employment office, this does not apply to IT specialists.
Rather than having to attract specialists from other firms, i.a. by engaging in a bidding war, companies often prefer to hire graduates.
This is because they can train them to meet their requirements
Language skills are a must
Knowledge of a foreign language is useful in any profession and IT guys need to have at least a decent knowledge of English.
Knowledge of at least one foreign language is a must for some IT positions.
On the other hand, we often come across companies, which are looking for skilled and experienced professionals with only an average knowledge of English.
According to the company's Director Mr Kubačka, it is an advantage for an IT support employee to be able to communicate in several languages because this allows him to serve more customers from different countries.
Yes, Google is heaven.
Czech employees can only envy Google staff.
They enjoy flexible working hours, option to work from home or a range of part-time opportunities, not only for mothers.
"Google offers new dads four extra weeks of holidays following the birth of their child," said Martina Joneková, a spokeswoman for Google.
Other benefits include healthcare for employees and their families, meals, transport, training, wellness or massages at the workplace.
Green light is given to those who want to continue learning irrespective of the subject.
The benefits do not stop there.
A well-stocked fridge for free is also quite something.
Healthy lunches (in some localities also breakfasts and dinners) are available at the workplace every day.
In addition, all offices feature so-called micro-kitchens, which are always well stocked with healthy snacks, revealed the spokeswoman.
To prevent waste, the employees can take home any leftovers in the evening.
And the reason for these benefits unheard of by Czech standards?
Create a creative and motivating environment!
"We at Google want to promote initiatives and projects, progress or development, ideas and innovative solutions rather than having employees sitting in the office for eight hours a day," added the spokeswoman.
UN has sharply criticised Bulgaria for criminalising refugees.
Mr Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, accused Bulgaria on Thursday of systematically violating human rights by criminalising refugees.
The official strategy of the Bulgarian government "raises serious concerns about Bulgaria's lack of respect for international law," warned Mr Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein.
He pointed out that "it is particularly worrying to witness how important and influential public figures have publicly expressed support for armed criminal outfits that brazenly organise refugee-hunting patrols along the Bulgarian-Turkish border."
"One of the most serious problems is that almost all people who cross the border to Bulgaria irregularly are being automatically arrested," said Zeid.
What is worse - they are often prosecuted and jailed - for a year or longer - if they attempt to leave the country.
Their attempts to leave the country are criminalised, despite the fact that under international law, everyone has the right to leave any country, including their own.
This year, Bulgaria arrested 14,000 migrants, last year over the same period, it was 21,000.
One-half of the funeral services is not complying with regulations.
One-half of funeral service providers do not comply with laws and regulations.
This is the result of checks carried out by the Czech Trade Inspectorate (CTI) in the second quarter,
in which it established that one of their most common shortcomings is that they fail to inform relatives about their prices or do not issue a written confirmation of receipt of the order.
According to its spokesman, Jiří Fröhlich, CTI imposed 41 fines totalling 73,000 Czech crowns
on funeral services for this very reason.
Inspectors discovered deficiencies in 47 of a total of 95 controls.
Besides the failure to inform about prices and issue confirmations, some funeral services also sold products or provided services at prices that differed from those agreed.
In five cases, the products sold were not properly labelled and in one case an officially unverified measuring instrument was used.
As a result, the Inspectorate banned the sale of 23 products for a total of 7077 Czech crowns,
including mainly urn containers, covers for candles and vases that were not properly labelled with mandatory information.
"Given that this is an area of services where laws and regulations are being breached on a regular basis, these checks will continue into the next quarter of the year," said Fröhlich.
He thought he was going to die.
Ulč resurrected himself and volleyball in Ústí.
"Since March, I was able to train normally," he said at the start of summer training having worked his way to full strength.
What was wrong with you?
I had double pulmonary embolism and related heart problems.
When I competed at the Universiade in Korea, I had no idea that there was something wrong with my blood.
Do you think this was caused by the long-haul flight to Asia?
I had a blood clot in my calf for two years, and I had no idea.
It did hurt but nobody found anything wrong with it.
Then the clot moved upwards.
I have a damaged vein in my calf, which will continue to hurt, especially when it is worked or when the weather changes.
This does not present a limitation for me in any way - it is rather an aesthetic thing.
Were you scared for your life?
I was.
Last year at a summer tournament in Dřevěnice, I could not move at all, and I had no idea that I had a blood clot.
In the evening, I vomited blood.
The doctors were telling me It was something completely different, and I felt K.O. for another five days.
In Dřevěnice, I really thought I was going to die. My girlfriend and my family also thought so.
I already started picturing myself somewhere else.
How did you deal with it?
I guess I had to experience it; it can only go upwards from here.
I know now that I have some problems with my blood, and I will have to watch it when I fly somewhere in the future.
On the other hand, I am not limited in any way.
Just when I was ready to return to preparation in Příbram last year, I started having problems with my heart.
Everything is fine now.
To play again, I have been working on my fitness by my own at home since March.
Fingers crossed, I feel physically in a better shape than I was before.
What do you expect from Ústí?
I am excited - the team looks strong, and I know most of the guys.
I also look forward to meeting the two foreigners who will be joining the team.
I hope we will get on on a personal level, and we can work well together.
Do you think you will be able to provide Ústí with a much needed boost?
It had a reputation of being an underdog, but every season is different.
Two years ago, Brno was eighth, and now it finished second.
Ústí has a completely new team, only a few players remain.
It came in last in the Extraliga, so there is plenty of room for improvement.
What we make of it is up to us.
We will see after the first rounds, who will be the underdog.
Is the manager, Mr Brom a guarantee for success?
He is very experienced and he has seen a lot, and he certainly wants to lift the team from the last place.
However, my arrival had nothing to do with his; I agreed to join earlier.
There were other managers in the running, I am great friends with one of them and there was an agreement that he will join here.
I do not want to mention the name.
In the end, they hired Mr Brom and I am happy about the decision.
He has a great reputation, he manged some very good teams, his experience spans several decades and he was a successful player himself.
He will move us up in the rankings.
Where do you come in?
This team will fight, which is also my forte.
I enjoy fighting, encouraging others to give their best, and I am looking forward to the challenge of playing in a team which does not belong to the very top.
I played for Příbram for two years, but Ústí is a much bigger challenge than to play for the sixth team because here we have to start from the bottom.
You mentioned foreigners, the Australian player Boehm is already training with Ústí.
What does he look like?
As it happens, I know him because we played against each other in the group at the Universiade.
We spoke to each other there a couple of times, and we also hung out together after matches, so we had a chance to get to know each other.
We beat them 3:1, I reminded him right at the beginning of summer preparation in Ústí.
He has a Slovak girlfriend, he is a nice guy.
The American Nadazdin and the Brazilian Ze are also expected to join.
Do you know anything about them?
I wrote to the American, he seems to be a nice guy. I have no idea, whether the Brazilian guy can speak English.
You got in touch with the American?
I thought it was a good idea.
I am a setter, which means my role is to create opportunities, so I should be communicating with everyone.
I did some research on the internet to see what kind of player he is, and I saw some videos.
He seemed pretty good - he is tall and jumps a lot.
We exchanged a couple of messages on Facebook, he is a bit of a comedian, I think he will fit in well with the team.
How are you looking forward to being the number one setter?
I would not have accepted anything else.
After all, I will be twenty-four soon and I don't like being a substitute.
I prefer to be at the centre of things, leading the team rather than let somebody else lead.
I guess I would not want to go on playing full-time if I were to be the second setter. If you cannot give your best, it is not worth much.
How often have you been the first setter?
Six months in Příbram, when Kust, the captain was not in form, got injured, then there were problems with money and he left.
Since then, we climbed up the rankings and I played all the time.
In Brno, where I started, I alternated between first and second setter.
I had a great year at Staré Město, and I could choose from a range of offers and I decided to go for Příbram.
While there, Budějovice has shown interest in me, I decided to stay, but I could not finish the season because of the embolism episode.
This is a new beginning.
Gold medal No 22
The short individual medley remains Phelps' domain.
"It is great to be able to get back on the podium and to hear the national anthem, it feels amazing," smiled Phelps while his eyes welled up with tears.
His mother together with his fiancée cheered him on, while his son Boomer slept peacefully sporting a pair of ear defenders.
I am experiencing an incredible week at the end of my career.
It is crazy - I started swimming competitively twenty years ago and in a few hours it will be all over, he said emotively.
Silver was won by Janpan's Kosuke Hagino, who won the long individual medley.
China's Wang Shun won the bronze, having won bronze in this event at last year's World Championships.
Following in the footsteps of Alu Oerter (discus throw) and Carl Lewis (long jump), Michael Phelps becomes the third athlete in Olympic history to win four consecutive individual titles in the same event.
Brazil's Thiago Pereira and his compatriot, Ryan Lochte kept pace with Lochte for most of the race,
but neither man could live with him on the freestyle leg of the race as they dropped out of the medals completely.
The American superhero will have at least one more chance to expand his historic medal collection.
Shortly after the medal presentation ceremony for the individual medley he advanced into the 100m butterfly final.
Phelps' historic achievement could not be overshadowed even by his compatriot Ryan Murphy, who won the 100m and 200m backstroke titles in Rio.
In the final, he took gold over Mitch Larkin of Australia, who finished 0.37 seconds behind him and Russia's Evgeny Rylov, who came in third.
While Murphy only finished fifth in 200m backstroke at last year's World Championships, he became the undisputed backstroke king at the Rio Olympics.
He unseated Mitch Larkin from the throne, who won a similar double at last year's World Championship.
This is the first time he won a gold medal at the Olympic games.
American Simone Manuel and Canada's Penny Oleksiak claimed joint gold in the women's 100m freestyle final.
While for the sixteen-year-old Penny Oleksiak, it was the fourth medal at these games, for Simon Manuel, it was the second medal after having earned silver in the relay.
Manuel became the first black female swimmer to win an Olympic gold medal.
I hope I can inspire other people to realise they can do this too.
I dedicate this medal to all those who will follow in my footsteps loving this sport, said the visibly moved Manuel.
Third was Sweden's Sarah Sjöström, who also won gold in 100m butterfly in a world record time and silver in 200m freestyle.
The world record holder, Australia's Cate Cambell only finished sixth.
Japan's Rie Kaneto won the women's 200m breaststroke. It is the first Olympic medal for the twenty seven-year-old.
Her best result so far was a fourth place in this event at the 2013 World Championships.
This was the second silver medal for Russia's Yulia Efimova, who faced hostility from her fellow competitors and the crowd because of her doping past.
I have made one big mistake.
I won my appeal and I do not see why I have to keep answering these questions all the time.
I feel very tired, said the Russian swimmer.
She had to appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) to compete at the Rio games.
They have considered my appeal, and I have won.
If somebody disagrees or has a different opinion, I suggest they contact CAS directly, she added.
This is disappointing, we could have won.
And a start at midnight?
Something unheard of.
It was a strange day for the Czechs.
They only found out less than an hour before the match who they will be playing against.
They had to master the tactical preparation at a lighting speed.
And then, in an unusual time, the match started on the small court number 1.
After a dismal start to the first set, they closed on their opponents only to fail to bring the set home at 19:19.
In the second, they clearly improved and levelled, but lost the decisive tiebreaker.
The 10:15 defeat was mainly down to a number of poor serves and meant the pair crashed out of the Olympic tournament.
"We could have beaten the Russians," Hermannová said.
What is your view of the match?
I had a slow start, but then we managed to get into the match and play really well.
At the end, my usually reliable return deserted me.
We lost that set, which was crucial.
We started the next set well with a changed defence strategy, we served well and dominated the court.
In the tiebreaker, there were too many poor serves, which tipped the scales to our detriment.
It was disappointing because we could have beaten the Russians.
Shame about the dismal start to the first set.
We were able to close on, but we lost the crucial points.
The second set was great and the third was decided by serves.
We made too many mistakes.
We gifted them five points and these five points would have made the difference. This was crucial.
It is a shame, because the match with the Russians was winnable.
How did you like playing on the small court number 1?
It was reminiscent of playing on side courts in China,
but the setting and atmosphere were different.
It took place at one in the morning in dead silence. There was no music, no nothing.
This was quite a change compared with the centre court.
We would have not chosen this deliberately, but it was not down to us.
How did you prepare for the match, having found out the names of your opponents one hour before the match?
It was strange.
We started to warm up for the match not knowing who we will be playing against. As a result, we could not prepare tactically for the match in contrast to the other teams.
But Simon (their coach Simon Nausch) prepared us tactically for nearly every eventuality.
He had prepared a lot of papers with tactics, so we were pretty well prepared in this respect.
Do you recall ever having to start a match at midnight?
I don't think so.
We played at half past ten, but not at midnight.
Russia's Birlova blocks a ball in the preliminary round play-off at the Olympic Games in Rio.
Beach volleyball players Markéta Sluková a Barbora Hermannová embrace during the preliminary round play-off at the Olympic Games in Rio.
Was it unpleasant?
Given that our last two matches in the group started at ten, we have already adjusted our routine to this later start.
This was still about two hours later.
It is strange, but I cannot think of any other sport where athletes are required to give their best at midnight.
On the other hand, I think we prepared as well as we could.
We knew about it, but it is not common and probably and it will hardly become my favourite time to play.
How do you rate your Olympic experience?
As our goal was to advance from the group, we can say
that we have achieved that,
but now, after the match I am sad.
I'll sleep on it and from tomorrow, I will only remember the positive aspects of the Olympic tournament.
Big brother is here in the form of the first spying SIM.
There is no escape.
The new rules should apply to all persons without a Thai passport who decide to purchase a SIM card from one of the local operators.
This does not only include tourists but also individuals with long-term visas who e.g. work in Thailand or who got married there.
According to the Secretary-General of the National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission, Takorn Tantasith there will be no exceptions.
The Thai national telecoms regulator presented the plan to sell SIM cards specifically designed for foreigners in early August.
The authorities intend to implement the new measures, which will allow them to track their location within six months.
According to Mr Tantasitha, this is aimed at protecting national security, as it will help authorities to solve crimes perpetrated by foreign nationals.
In addition, these so-called tourist SIM cards should also help to uncover individuals who exceed their length of stay without proper authorisation.
Retailers should start selling the new SIM cards for foreigners along SIMs for locals within six months.
The principal difference between them is in the tracking function which will be permanently enabled on SIM cards sold exclusively to individuals without a Thai passport.
It will not be possible to disable this function.
"We do not need this feature for SIM cards sold to Thais because we can always easily track them," added Tantasith.
It should be noted that in Thailand, prepaid cards are not anonymous as it is the case in the Czech Republic.
The seller requires a proof of identity.
On the other hand, one of the operators used to supply tourists with free starter SIMs at airports.
These were completely anonymous.
Other Asian countries, including Malaysia and Singapore, are also mulling to follow the Thai example and introduce similar measures.
While the SIM registration is compulsory, under current legislation, they are not free to track foreigners.
The planned measures do not mean, however, that foreigners are under any obligation to purchase SIM from a local operator upon arrival to the country.
They are free to use the roaming services offered by their existing SIM cards and escape the watchful eye of the Thai authorities.
This is because the operators in the destination country only know the relevant network information. Once a SIM connects to the network,
they know the telephone number, but not the owner information.
Given that the roaming charges are so much higher than the tariffs of local operators, it is highly likely that most tourists will eventually cave in and buy a local SIM.
The authorities' efforts to track the movements of foreigners, have been the subject of sharp criticism by expat groups living in Thailand.
Tantasith has tried to calm the situation with respect to privacy protection by comparing this with the obligation to provide information about the residential address in immigration documents.
Police will need to get a court order if they wanted to track the movements of a concrete individual.
Any abuse of the system will lead to a yet unspecified punishment.
"It would be a criminal offence for a service provider to track the SIM location without a court order," added Tantasith.
In addition, the system should also maximize the use of prepaid cards.
While at present, telephone numbers are only recycled 90 days after the SIM has last connected to the network, this could be now reduced to fifteen days after departure from Thailand.
Luxury flat in a new development in Vinohrady has a swimming pool and hot tub on the terrace.
Why did you opt for a flat in a new development?
We were looking for a worry-free flat with a property manager looking after the property.
Among our must-have features was ample parking and a lift, which basically ruled out older buildings.
Not to mention the problematic acoustics in old houses, rocking floors, high energy consumption, etc.
We also wanted a large terrace, which older buildings do not tend to have.
You will find more about other interesting properties we visited in the magazine "Moderní byt" [modern flat].
The entire interior was designed by the architect Lenka Langerová and her colleague Kamila Polaková from the interior design studio Artigo.
Why did not choose them?
Would you recommend this approach to everyone?
We would recommend using the services of an architect to anyone who is designing a flat from the scratch, because it is a very complex technical process.
The second level is the actual interior design: designers have a much better idea about the range of available materials, and they are able to make it all work based on the wishes of the client.
We have already worked with Lenka Langerová on our flat in the mountains based on a recommendation from another client and because everything worked well we decided to approach her to work on the reconstruction of our new flat in Vinohrady.
What were your practical and aesthetic requirements?
We wanted a generous entertaining-living space with adequate facilities for a family of four, conceived as a modern yet not impersonal interior.
The priority was to create a visual and functional link between the flat and the terraces and to implement smart home features.
Not least it was also important to safeguard the quality of execution.
Did you leave everything to the experts or did you have a say in the final look of the interior?
We approved all designs including technical drawings but the designs were always created by the architects.
At the beginning, we specified what we expect from design, and we have shown the architects some elements, such as carpets or paintings which we wanted to see integrated into the design.
I think that our collection of mostly Czech paintings, including the works by Karel Malich, Karel Vysušil, Václav Špála or Otto Gutfreund helped the architects to get a feel for our taste.
The combination of black, white and nutwood was the brainchild of the architect as well as individual pieces of furniture, walls, flooring, lighting, carpets, fabrics, art, etc. We then used visualisations to make sure everything worked well together. The combination of black, white and nutwood was the brainchild of the architect as well as individual pieces of furniture, walls, flooring, lighting, carpets, fabrics, art, etc. We then used visualisations to make sure everything worked well together.
Did you encounter any complications during the realisation phase, which forced you to abandon some of the original ideas or come up with new ones?
Perhaps only at the beginning of the project, when we arrived at the construction site and were able for the first time to get to our floor only to find out that the views we envisaged will be blocked by surrounding buildings.
This forced us to change the layout plans literally overnight.
You have used granite on kitchen countertops and fireplace tiling.
The interior is dominated by wood surfaces complemented by leather used e.g. on dining chairs and bar stools Norma from Arper.
How would you characterise the interior?
Are you planning any changes or is there something you wish you would have done differently?
I think it is a modern, airy interior, which serves its purpose.
We do not plan any changes; most changes took place after we moved in in the form of shielding and fitting solutions for the terraces.
Perhaps the only complaint concerns the nutwood flooring which is too susceptible to damage in a household with a dog.
Comments by the architects, Ing. arch. Lenka Langerová and MgA. Kamila Hornychová, who implemented the project
The flat is on the top floor of a new development, which made it possible to come up with a completely new layout and several other modifications.
An important element of the interior was the use of daylighting systems in the ceiling of the hall and the master WC,
to channel natural light to the darker areas of the flat.
Direct access from the master bathroom to the roof terrace and the swimming pool from USSPA is one of the adjustments, which was very beneficial for the functionality of the apartment as a whole.
It also includes a swimming pool and a hot tub.
You are not as negative as the French, says a Muslim living in Prague.
You are from France.
Where have you lived before you moved to Prague?
My parents are originally from Algeria.
I was born in the south of France, near the Spanish border.
So I moved around quite a bit.
I lived in Toulouse, Lyon and Marseille.
In France, I studied journalism, thanks to which I managed to get a job with a magazine.
Why did you then decide to move in another country?
I started to feel suffocated in France.
I just did not want to live there anymore.
Mainly because of the atmosphere between people.
The French people came across as overly negative.
People in France are generally quite negative, but it has become much worse lately.
It is interesting that you mention negativity.
There are many people you say this about the Czechs.
Believe me, you are not as negative as the French.
Some people who come to France as tourists, for example, may not be so aware of it.
But I had enough.
Everybody keeps talking about money, for example.
People feel that they do not have enough money, despite the fact that the minimum wage in France is EUR 1,500, which in my view is quite a lot.
Now there is another problem with behaviour towards Muslims,
which is beyond me.
For example, in the street where I lived, my non-Muslim neighbour started to look down on me just because I am a Muslim.
As if I was some kind of evil.
As a result, I no longer felt welcome in France,
even though the rest of my family stayed there.
So you decided to move to another country.
Why did you choose the Czech Republic?
I was looking for a job in a different country, and I found an opening at Air France here in Prague.
I admit that I did not know anything about Prague at the beginning.
I knew something about the Czech Republic as my dad told me about what happened in Czechoslovakia, but I did not know what to expect from Prague.
I have now been living here for three years, and I cannot imagine living anywhere else.
Was it a big difference when you moved from France to Prague?
Mainly because of the different atmosphere.
Maybe it is because I do not speak Czech, so I cannot catch some of the negative reactions or insults, but I feel that people have more freedom here.
I feel I can do anything, dress in any way I like, and nobody will judge me.
In France, people keep starring at you in an unpleasant way because you dress differently, etc.
In Prague, I began to feel really free.
In my opinion, locals do not seem to care much about these things.
Where do you work now?
After I left Air France, I worked for a while for a travel website.
After that I founded a website together with a friend, which can be used by people to find and offer shared accommodation.
We currently only operate in Prague but we would like to expand to cover the whole of Central Europe.
Do you have any Czech friends in Prague?
I have two very close friends, who are half Czech, and two female friends who are Czech.
I must say that Czechs tend to keep their distance at first.
They do not let just anyone get too close,
which is quite different where I grew up.
In the south, everybody is hugging and kissing each other on the cheek.
It is different here, but I understand that this is a cultural thing, so I try to adjust.
You mentioned that you do not speak Czech.
Does the language barrier present a problem for you?
Quite the contrary, I find it is really easy here in Prague because virtually everyone speaks English here.
Even in convenience stores and supermarkets.
I would like to learn Czech, but I do not have time
and because it is relatively easy to communicate in English, I do not have the incentive to learn the language quickly.
Every time when I have a problem, somebody comes along who can help me.
Did you come across some negative reactions?
Maybe because you are a Muslim?
By and large, I did not.
Maybe it is also because I work in an international environment which is more tolerant.
I can think of one experience though.
My supervisor, wo was Czech, once told me about the French football team and said something along the lines of:
While I found that comment a bit offensive,
I never had anybody having a problem with me because of me being a Muslim.
A colleague once warned me, however, about anti-Muslim demonstrations.
He told me to avoid the city centre because they would only be hurling insults at me.
Anti-Muslim demonstrations are partly related to terrorist attacks.
What do you think about the current situation?
Are you afraid that something similar to Paris, Nice or Brussels could happen here in Prague?
I feel safe in Prague.
The problem is that nowadays anything can happen anywhere.
Until recently, I could not imagine that something like that could happen in France.
And this does not only concern Muslims.
What is more, Islam does not condone violence at all.
In my view, people who kill other people are not Muslims.
According to the Quran, no human can kill another human. Only God can kill.
What do you think about terrorists using your faith to justify their actions?
It is tough.
I feel shame and guilt, even though I should not feel like that at all.
I try not to follow the news about violence too much but every time I read something, I feel the need to apologise for something that is really not my fault.
I am a completely different person, so why should I apologize for the terrorists?
We met on náměstí Jiřího z Poděbrad.
On Wednesday, Czech Muslims, along with Christians demonstrated here against violence.
Did you know about it?
No, I was not aware of it.
But I understand why people feel the need to show that they are against violence.
I do not think that they have to do something like this.
Why should they feel guilty for something they did not cause?
Do you come across other Muslims in Prague?
My colleagues are, for example, from Egypt and other Muslim countries.
They tend to be a bit more religious than I am, so we sometimes have fierce discussions about Islam, because we see Islam quite differently.
I come from France, so I went through a different education system, whereas they have been taught Islam in school.
We have different attitudes, but we have respect for one another.
People sometimes associate Islam with the subordinate position of women.
What do you think about it?
I definitely do not feel subordinate.
Quite the contrary.
I am a woman and I am strong.
Does it have anything to do with the fact that you do not cover your head
and wear a hijab for example?
It has something to do with how I was raised.
My mother, for example, is a devoted Muslim.
She prays five times a day, but she does not wear a headscarf.
I was always taught that faith is a purely personal matter.
It depends on how one interprets it.
When you read the Quran, you should make up your own mind.
When I read a passage in the Quran which says that God told the Prophet to hide his wives from the eyes of the others, I said to myself,
On the other hand, I would wear headscarf if I travelled to Iran or Saudi Arabia, where headscarves are mandatory.
Do you plan to stay in Prague?
So far, yes.
I have never felt so good anywhere else.
I thought for a while about Poland, but I feel great in Prague.
I could even imagine raising my children here.
In my view, Prague is an ideal city.
Czech Muslims, along with Christians demonstrated against violence.
The wind in Rio swept the yachtswoman Kozelská-Fenclová closer to the final.
The Czech sailor, Veronika Kozelská-Fenclová did well in Friday's two heats on the race course in Rio di Janiero.
In the Laser Radial Class, she moved to the tenth place before the final two heats.
This would guarantee the Czech yachtswoman a place in the final.
You can collect parcels like Pokémon.
They want to compete with delivery services.
The brains behind the idea to use already scheduled journeys to transport packages are the TV director Matěj Liška and Marek Greger, a manager of a music club in Prague.
They used the idea to create three apps with different geographical reach.
We have launched the domestic delivery services app "Převezu" in May.
At this point, it contains one thousand cities, and we will continue to expand the network.
We want to learn the business in the Czech Republic first before we start focusing more on other countries, said the forty one-year-old manager in an interview with iDNES.cz.
How does the app "Převezu" work and who can benefit from it?
You can download the app for free and register.
Then you can enter your route and information about the size of the package you can transport and the price.
On the same day, someone else may be looking to deliver something.
If both sides agree on the route and the time of delivery, the app matches them together and they both receive a notification,
Next a chat window opens, where the two sides can arrange the handover/pick up.
How many people do you think will have to register to match every package with a courier?
I am not in the position to estimate how many registered users and journeys there have to be to balance supply and demand to ensure optimal coverage.
It is already working well on the main routes but this is much easier than it would be, say, on the road between villages.
The more people, the bigger the potential to offer a fast and accurate delivery,
It takes time for people to trust the system as they realise that nobody will run away with their parcel.
Have you not dealt with such a case yet?
How many users does the service have two months after launch?
We currently have roughly five to six thousand people who deliver parcels.
We consider this to be a success and believe that it will snowball from here.
Is there not a risk that the sender may have to wait too long?
We hope to be competitive with the large conglomerates not least because we are able to deliver the package the same day and for a fraction of the price.
Large companies charge several thousand Czech crowns for delivery within two hours.
With us, you pay one hundred Czech crowns or less because someone is going to your destination anyway.
Should traditional carriers worry about potentially losing customers in the future?
We hope that this will be the case.
The market has a huge potential, there is a range of multinational carriers operating here, making money. When the large retail chains first came here, everybody rushed to shop there only to find out later that the quality does not necessarily reflect the price they are paying for the products.
Nobody likes to find a note in their mailbox advising them to pick up their parcel at the post office branch after 19:00,
when you needed the parcel six hours ago and waited at home because it was important.
We want better, faster and more customer-friendly service that will not annoy people and will send a signal to the competition to try harder.
Marek Greger (41) and Matěj Liška (39).
Neither ever worked in the field of information technology.
Marek Greger works as a music club manager, Matěj Liška is a TV director.
In 2014, they started to prepare the application Shippansee LTD, which uses previously scheduled routes between world capitals, in particular, by air to transport packages.
In 2015, they hired a company to work on the project, which created apps, e.g. for MALL.cz, Jobs.cz or ČSFD.
It took 9 months to develop the app, and they launched to the market in March 2016.
The development of the "Převezu" app started in December last year, and it was released in May this year.
It is a localised version of the Shippansee app adapted to the Czech market.
They have been developing the apps "Mesíkem" and "Mesíkem Profi" since January this year and made them available to users at the end of July 2016.
They intended from the very start to merge all these apps into one.
They want to fine-tune the app in the Czech Republic and then focus on the global market in cooperation with a strong investor.
Sharing economy has become a buzzword lately, with Airbnb and Uber being the leading companies advancing this type of service.
Are you not concerned that the boundary between sharing and grey economy is blurred in this particular field?
It is the same thing, just a different product.
We are aware that if we succeed as a business, and we continue to grow we will be criticised for being part of the grey economy.
While our service will help people to make money on the one hand and save money on the other, it is not our intention to evade the tax authorities or tax inspections.
Any user, who makes money, will be advised about the need to pay taxes on the income generated.
What does make you believe that this service has such a big potential?
The sender will save money and the courier will lower the cost of his journey.
This is the powerful idea that connects the two sides.
In the age of social networks that divide people, we would like to bring people together.
People will be happy that they could help someone, and they will be able to share stories with others.
Maybe someone will bring you your misplaced glasses, keys or medication.
In my view, people miss the personal touch. We say about this app that it is a service by the people for the people.
How can you guarantee that the courier will not take the parcel and run away?
Upon registering, each user will be required to submit a scan of his or her ID card and provide bank, credit or debit card details.
These are channels that lend credibility to the service and its users.
Couriers also collect stars based on the sender reviews.
We will also be offering insurance, the details of which are currently being fine-tuned.
If the consignment is uninsured, the courier is liable for its loss or damage. However, he is not liable for its content under the criminal law, if he was unaware that there was something illegal inside the package.
If the courier is stopped by the police who searches the trunk of his car and finds an AK-47 or ten kilos of hashish in the closed package, the sender will be criminally liable.
Is there not a risk that the sensitive data from the database could be misused?
If necessary, those registered can be traced by the administrative authority, which alone will be able to access it; even we will not have access to the data, which are protected from misuse.
How much can couriers earn after they have successfully delivered the package?
Couriers set their prices, and they receive the full amount they ask for.
The sender will be charged a few percentage points extra for arranging the contact between the two sides.
This represents our profit, but it is only a few percentage points because we want to increase the volume.
It is also not possible to claim that the courier has not delivered a package when this is not the case; the handover and deliver is verified using QR codes.
Are there any restrictions
as regards the size or content of the parcel?
You can transport anything.
We have three sizes - the smallest is about butter size, the medium is like a tray of eggs and the large is the size of a crate of beer.
There are no other restrictions and if someone has sufficient room in their car, they may transport a fridge.
The sender also has the option to take a picture of the parcel through the app, so that the courier can see what the job in hand is.
Senders are not even required to package the item, if they do not wish to hide the package content.
All you have to do is hand the forgotten sweatshirt to the courier.
Whose idea was it and how long did it take to launch the service?
A friend came up with the idea more than two years ago, and I did not pay much attention to it back then.
Then he showed me a demo of the app with multinational scope that was mainly aimed at airline passengers.
I told him that I would not be looking for an investor, because I wanted to invest my own savings into the project.
We spent the next year developing the app, so we decided to establish Shippansee LTD in London to enhance the credibility of the whole product.
Nevertheless, this is not an area you are now focusing on as a matter of priority.
No, we focus our marketing effort on the Czech Republic, where we are trying to fine-tune the app to eliminate any bugs and there are still areas we want to improve.
We want to respond to the feedback from our customers, and we are not that focused on foreign markets at present.
We know we are in this for the long haul, and we are not trying to rush things through as we want to create a really good product for the people.
Shippansee LTD was the first and the most expensive app; the other two were in a way just an upgrade.
"Převezu" was created when we decided that the national segment can potentially be much more interesting and if nothing else we will use our experience in the Czech Republic to learn.
The third app, "Mesíkem" is a local app for cities.
Nevertheless, you can use it to send a parcel to an address on the other side of the world.
It works for the sender the same way as "Převezu", the difference being that as a courier, you see the consignments as dots on the map which are the closest to you thanks to GPS on their mobile phone.
"Mesíkem Profi" is an app for couriers who want to pursue this professionally.
Does this mean that people can literally pick up parcels around the town as their second job?
Absolutely, in Prague, this app could be downloaded by taxi drivers, students, mothers on maternity leave or anyone who wants to make some cash on their way to work.
They could, in essence, collect it like they do collect Pokémons these days.
The courier can see where there are jobs available, he or she can click on it and find out when the package is due for delivery, and then goes ahead and delivers the package.
We designed the service to be much cheaper than the competition.
We are currently working on a web interface, which will be crucial for companies to send packages; they will be able to fill in the information online and create the dots on the map.
We will then be in the position to invoice them, e.g. every month for using the service.
Do you now devote all your time to the project?
It keeps us very busy, and we still have our day jobs to be able to fund and develop the project.
We do not have a multinational investor with deep pockets backing us. We are two regular guys - one who had a great idea and another who jumped on the bandwagon with additional suggestions and ideas.
We are now looking for a dedicated and resourceful investor who would have the courage to develop the product beyond the Czech market and to create a global market leader comparable with AirBnB and Uber.
The story-scope of Titanfall 2 is expected to deliver nearly forgotten diversity.
According to the information provided, the sequel and the single player campaign are expected to be much more diverse than the Call of Duty.
The length will be around the standard eight hours, and the content is based on the concept of net battles introduced by its predecessor.
Players can enjoy the freedom of movement, which next to running includes the option to use a fighting Titan.
In addition to the action passages, the game contains levels focused on flexibility in movement.
They are reminiscent of platform games and puzzles.
To clear them, it is key to utilise, e.g. double jumps, wall runs and rope sliding.
In addition, players will have to do damage to their enemies.
There will also be maps reminiscent of mazes and levels with special concepts.
In one of them, it will be, for example, possible to move platforms up and down and open massive doors,
and thus change the look of the battlefield.
The pace of the gameplay should, therefore, move between fierce action and quieter moments to explore the unknown planet.
Players will be in control of a foot soldier Jack Cooper, who is dreaming about becoming a professional pilot.
At the start of the campaign, Cooper and captain Lastimosa crash on an alien planet Typhon, which is inhabited by enemy troops.
The local wildlife will also not give them a break.
What is more, Lastimosa is fatally wounded in the crash and Cooper, therefore, has to revive the captain's Titan.
His dream of becoming a pilot comes true earlier than he thought.
The first step will be to steal the battery necessary to repair the robot.
Important will also be the conversations Cooper has with the Titan.
These will serve as a source of information for the players to find out about the soldier's past, while at the same time, the impersonal communication style of the robot will produce some laughs.
For example, when the Titan dryly lists all the injuries that Cooper could suffer as a result of a planned jump.
The Polygon server was first to report on the Titanfall 2 campaign.
We will be able to judge the game for ourselves in two months, and we at Bonusweb will be reporting on our first impressions of the game.
Titanfall 2 will be released on 28 October for PC, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.
THQ brand will be resurrected but the original publishing house is dead.
The Swedish company Nordic is changing its name to Nordic THQ.
Following the collapse of the publishing house THQ, it acquired a number of its brands and the right to use the company name and logo.
As a result, Nordic was able to release e.g. Darksiders 2 Deathnitive Edition or the Red Faction Collection.
There are another 23 games being created for the publishing house, which is yet to reveal 13 of them.
Thirty years ago, at a time when I was about to retire, my wife of thirty years started an affair with our neighbour, who was twenty years her junior.
I knew about it from the start - she was first pursuing him quite openly before they got together.
He was quite a big guy, probably her type as she dated a similar type before me.
She was head over heels in love with him.
In those first days, her voice even changed; she suddenly had such a girly, infatuated voice.
However, when I told her that I knew what was going on she denied it.
I was watching the whole thing.
He used to arrive at home from work at half past three and she always left at three to go shopping.
She tried to see him at least once every day.
Later, I figured out that they were meeting in the house where he lived, in the laundry room.
There were many times I knew that they were at that very moment.
I managed to get the keys and I was determined to catch them there inflagranti.
I do not know why, but in the end, I always stayed at home.
I was incapable of taking the decisive step and going there.
You may find if funny, but I am convinced that my wife was controlling me with her mind.
I think that she found out early on that she can control me to make me do what she wanted.
And I actually did it.
Maybe I am just a looser.
At the same time, my other neighbours also hinted that they knew about the affair.
I was a fool because I never asked them what I should do.
I was scared that if push came to shove, things would get really bad.
Only my daughter thought that this may have an impact on everyone in the family.
As the time passed, I kept procrastinating.
Once I went to see him in his flat, and I told him that I needed help with something in the laundry room.
He went there with me, and I told him that I received an anonymous letter accusing him of having an affair with my wife, and that I was inclined to believe it.
I asked him what he had to say.
He stood there, shrugged and said nothing.
At the time, I also bumped into his wife on her way from the shops.
I told her about it, but she did not believe it.
She did not react and did not say anything.
Nobody said anything to me at the time.
I am a type of person who does not go out much, and I always found it difficult to meet new people, let alone women.
Hence, I was not really contemplating a divorce.
I still hoped that it would end one day.
I told myself that I would forgive her everything and life would go on.
This is not how it went down,
and I have never really come to terms with it.
I am still keeping those feelings inside.
I used to show her how I felt, but in the end, I stopped to keep the peace.
He still lives next door, and I still live with her,
the only difference being that she is more of a housekeeper than my wife.
She always did everything at home - she did the cooking, washing, cleaning up.
She has always been a hard worker.
I think she wanted to make sure that I do not have another reason to complain.
I can also say that she is kind.
Sometimes I would like to touch and hug her but she would not let me.
We keep going together for walks and shopping, and everyone thinks we have a happy marriage.
She said to me once that she never loved me.
She said that she always had been fond of me, but she never loved me.
I can see that she still loves him, she worships him like a god.
I am tired of such a life.
Back when it all started, and I was taking it very badly, I once said to her that I no longer wanted to live and asked how she would feel if I ended it.
I wanted to know whether she would agree with it.
All I wanted to hear is
She thought about it for a while and then she said:
Prime Minister Manuel Valls wants to establish a new French Islamic foundation, which would act as a bridge between the French state and France's Muslims.
After the terrorist attacks, France is stepping up its fight against radical Islamists, and the government is calling on the Muslim minority to help.
"If Muslims will not help the Republic to fight against those who undermine public freedoms, it will be increasingly hard for the Republic to guarantee their freedom of worship," said Prime Minister Manuel Valls.
He wants to ensure that only clerics trained in France are allowed to practice in mosques and other places of worship.
He also wants to stop funding of mosques from abroad, because the funding is usually accompanied "imported" foreign imams who then spread radical agendas in mosques.
By October, Prime Minister Valls wants to establish a new French Islamic foundation, which would act as a bridge between the French state and France's Muslims.
The new institution will replace the “Foundation for Islam of France”, which was founded in 2005 by former Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin
with the objective to make the financial flows between mosques and countries that that fund their construction more transparent.
It was, however, soon hit by internal divisions, and it never worked properly.
"It is a total failure," said Valls recently.
The new foundation is likely to be headed by Jean-Pierre Chevènement, the former minister of interior and defence, who is known as a supporter of the secular state.
There are roughly 2,500 mosques and places of worship in France, of which some 120 are thought to be under the influence of radical Islam.
Since 2012, authorities have expelled about 80 of Imams and dozens are currently under consideration.
This week, the German police also took action against radical clerics,
who were allegedly recruiting fighters for the Islamic State.
One of them operated a facility which was reportedly radicalising believers who later attacked a Sikh temple in Essen.
In the aftermath of the attack on the Charlie Hebdo magazine in January 2015, a debate over a new institution that would replace the largely defunct foundation ignited in France.
This urgency has been augmented by further terrorist attacks in France carried out by radicalised Islamists in the name of the Islamic State.
It will have two main tasks - to ensure that mosques are funded from domestic sources and to monitor imams.
It is not clear yet how the new foundation will be funded, even though a number of proposals are being considered.
One of them would be a special charge on halal food, i.e. mainly meat from animals slaughtered according to Islamic principles.
This charge would, in practice, be paid by the vendors of halal food for certification.
Part of this money would then go to the foundation.
Another option would be for French pilgrims heading to Mecca to pay a contribution of ten to twenty euros.
Every year, around 30,000 French Muslims go on this pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia.
In addition, only preachers trained at local universities should be permitted to practice in mosques.
This is designed to ensure that sermons are compatible with democracy.
The government is also shutting down radical mosques.
"We have shut down twenty mosques since December and other will follow," said the Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve.
"There is no place in France for those who preach hatred and do not respect the principles of our country, such as equality between women and men," he said.
Zaragoza.
On Friday morning, an unnamed gunman seriously injured his ex-wife in a shopping centre in Zaragoza in Northern Spain, the newspaper Independent reported.
The shooting took place after the woman and her daughter left a garage in their car.
The man was reportedly waiting in another car from which he opened fire.
According to witnesses, the man then turned the weapon on himself, the Independent reported.
The woman was taken to the hospital by her uninjured daughter, while the man in critical condition was taken there by ambulance.
The shooting took place at around 11:00 local time in the centre of the capital of the autonomous region of Aragon, not far from the local university.
The Independent is citing the Spanish news agency Europa Press, according to which the motive was likely related to unresolved issues surrounding the couple's recent divorce.
Rolls with asparagus, wakame seaweed, ginger and chilli sauce.
While summer is the time to enjoy light, easily digestible meals, we Czechs are rebels, and we are quite stubborn when it comes to our tastes.
Our al fresco restaurants like to serve grilled pork, brisket or pork knuckles.
Nothing too healthy, nothing too light, except perhaps for a salad or roasted vegetables here and there.
Barbecuing not only saves time and crockery, it is also a social event without anyone having to spend hours in the kitchen.
However, there are alternatives how to prepare treats, which will inject some variety into dining. Their preparation is a bit of a ritual but on the other hand, there is no need to spend hours in the kitchen baking, frying or stewing anything.
What is more, they will make you healthier.
Whether it's homemade sushi or sashimi, where quality ingredients and a bit of skill will make the preparation enjoyable and the food itself a real exotic delicacy.
This also applies to the even easier rice paper rolls from today's recipe,
which allows you to skip the more time-consuming cooking and cooling of rice.
You only need to submerge the paper for a few seconds in water and the rest with regard to the filling and ingredients is up to the cook and his imagination.
All seaweed is not created the same.
The advantage of Asian cuisine these days is that the ingredients are today readily available.
Including the pickled sweet and sour ginger, which is one of the basic accompaniments for fresh sushi or rolls.
You can make it at home, but the genuine pink gari ginger has unique spicy and delicious taste thanks to a secret recipe, which is used to make it from various types of vinegar and ginger.
All you have to do is to buy a bag of this stuff in the right size and you will have a side dish with proven antibacterial efficacy and supporting digestion and to boost immunity against coughing or the flu.
Banana leaves.
They are used primarily in Buddhist and Hindu cultures when serving and decorating dishes for a variety of ceremonial occasions and rituals.
Long ribbed banana leaves are widespread in many countries in Asia and South America as tools to prepare a variety of baked, boiled or fried foods, which are packed into them like in an aluminium foil.
Banana leaves also lend food a specific flavour.
They are available here in specialised stores selling exotic fruits and vegetables, pre-cut into pieces.
Only choose leaves that are bright green and healthy, i.e. without cracks and spots
The preparation of a salad made from wakame seaweed, sesame and sesame oil is similarly straight forward.
This is available frozen.
Those who often eat or prepare sushi will be familiar with nori seaweed.
In Japan, it is one of the most important species of seaweed, which is cut, pressed and dried to prepare nori leaves, which in turn are used to prepare sushi.
Wakame − the dark green seaweed growing in the waters around the island of Hokkaido − can be eaten fresh or dried and is as popular as nori.
Most people are familiar with wakame miso soup, which is said to have been used by Asian women since ancient times to recover after childbirth.
In general, this seaweed is considered to have miraculous powers.
It purifies the blood, strengthens blood circulation, it is also said to prevent the greying of hair, and it is packed with minerals.
Dried and shredded wakame is also used as a spice for seasoning rice, for example.
Fresh seaweed should be first leached in water then rinsed, plunged into boiling water and cooked for 30 seconds.
Next, they cool it in ice water, cut out the centre ribbing and processed further to prepare e.g. this popular salad.
Nevertheless, it is much easier to buy the ready-made, frozen version of the product.
All that remains is to prepare a roll with a simple vegetable filling, which is both delicious and light and full of healthy flavours.
This is such a fountain of youth.
You have to resist adding a grilled pork belly.
Healthy & light summer dishes
Asians know how to do this.
All you need is a few special ingredients and bit of skill, and you will create an interesting, fresh meal, which is a delicious combination of various flavours.
It is finished in no time.
Four pieces of rice paper, 40 g carrots 40 g white radish, 100 g green asparagus, 60 g cucumber 60 g wakame seaweed and 60 g of sweet chilli sauce.
Handful of chopped coriander, teaspoon black sesame, teaspoon sriracha chili sauce, 20 g mango and 40 g pickled gari ginger, a few pine nuts.
First, we will prepare the rolls.
Soak the rice paper for five seconds in the cold water.
Next, take it out and wait until it softens.
In the meantime, cook the asparagus tips briefly in hot water and cool them in cold water after roughly three minutes.
We place the vegetable filling on the softened paper and wrap it.
We will prepare the filling from white radish, carrots and cucumber, cut into fine strips, mix them with sweet chilli sauce, add chopped coriander, mix it thoroughly and add to the rice paper.
We place the asparagus tips on the banana leaf, add the rolls and garnish the dish with wakame seaweed, pickled ginger, a slice of mango and we sprinkle black sesame and pine nuts on the top.
Prison?
I would prefer if they had to drive people for free, says the taxi mafia hunter Rubeš in connection with the ground-breaking prosecution.
According to ČT, the defendants are six taxi drivers and a former official of the municipal government in Prague.
You've made a number of reports in which you uncovered the fraudulent practices of those who are in the group which is now being prosecuted.
You had to face several unpleasant skirmishes with those you have exposed.
To what extent does this news of members of this organised gang being prosecuted represent a breakthrough for you?
I did expect that this would go to court at some stage.
I am mainly curious about the verdict,
but I do not think that they should be in jail.
That is useless.
They should, in the first place, repay all the stolen money,
by having to drive people for free.
This is a somewhat strange solution.
Does it mean that you do not consider the likely punishment handed down by the court to be sufficiently effective?
I consider it sufficient that some of them are now so scared that they left the profession.
One of them is now working as a waiter, another is delivering pizza and one of them has given up completely.
The defendants can theoretically get two to eight years in prison.
Do you think this is an adequate tariff?
I have a problem with custodial sentences in general.
I consider them to be an ineffective form of punishment.
It is nonsense to put somebody behind bars in a case like this.
Such people should be forced to give back to society what they have taken away.
They have been destroying our country's reputation by brazenly stealing from people for twenty-five years.
So now they should restore the country's reputation by having to drive people for free.
I cannot think of a better form of punishment.
It would work like a community service.
As others are required to collect garbage, they would get a car to drive people around Prague for free.
No, I think that in the end, they will get a suspended sentence and they will not care.
They will find another way how to defraud others.
He studied at the Film Academy of Miroslav Ondříček in Písek and subsequently, at Tomáš Baťa University in Zlín.
Mr Rubeš is one of the people, who started creating videos directly for the web in the Czech Republic and the person behind many viral videos.
He works as a journalist for the online broadcaster Stream.cz, where he is involved in a number of shows. He is currently working on the Prague Guide, which is intended primarily for foreign audiences.
This is a series of short reports, in which Rubeš advises foreign visitors which services they should be using and what they should avoid.
He has previously filmed shows with titles "Jak na to" [What to do], "Město podvodů?" [City of fraud?], "Život v luxusu" [Life in luxury], "A dost!" [Enough!] and "Praha vs. Prachy" [Prague vs money]. VUTIUM a Prometheus, Brno a Praha 2001. Fast cash
In the indictment, they are referred to as an organised group.
The police followed them for several months.
Can this group of fraudulent taxi drivers be described as a mafia-style group?
They seem to be "nice" mobsters compared to those from the Godfather.
This is more about mobsters-juniors, but they are definitely organised.
If nothing else they are watching the taxi ranks for each other.
They have Prague divided into different zones.
I have observed, for example, that those at the main railway station do not like those in Pařížská, and those in Pařížská, in turn, do not have cordial relations with drivers at Karlovy Lázně (disco club)
They all are watching their taxi ranks and each group is organised in some way.
It is probably a complex network,
but there are altogether only seven defendants - six taxi drivers and one official from the municipal government who is accused of warning the drivers ahead of controls.
As you have said, this undesirable element has not disappeared from the streets.
What percentage of Prague taxi drivers do you consider to be fraudulent?
While it is only a very small percentage,
the worst of them are still roaming the streets.
I am talking about Aleš Ryjáček, for example.
This is a man who is really dangerous - he carries an expandable baton in his car, and every Friday and Saturday, he is at the taxi rank near Charles Bridge and drives people around the city.
When I was in his taxi the last time, he wanted me to pay him three hundred Czech crowns for three kilometres.
The police has not detained him for some reason.
They only picked a few people from that large group.
The situation is very similar in other locations in Prague.
The indictment of seven people will hardly eradicate a well-known Prague vice, which appears to be much bigger.
On the other hand, I would not say that this was a completely futile exercise.
It will help, but it will not eradicate all the evil.
Do the taxi drivers who prey on foreign tourists still frequent the same locations which you have showed in your reports, i.e. near the Charles Bridge or Pařížská?
Yes.
They continue breaking the laws and regulations from these very locations day in and day out.
This is being ignored by the Metropolitan Police and the Prague Magistrate.
This can no longer be dismissed just as "Absurdistan," this is utter indifference.
The business of the Prague taxi drivers in numbers
Still, some of them, even if it is only a small minority, will end up in court.
This is a breakthrough.
I have to ask you whether you now feel vindicated?
Vindication was not my objective. My goal has always been to make the centre of Prague a better place.
Even if I felt that we have achieved something in this regard, I will continue.
You have to keep pushing.
Even if there is only one last thief remaining, we should continue to make our best effort to catch and remove him.
You cannot be happy with that.
In reality, however, there are many more out there.
Are you still trying to confront them directly in their taxis?
I sometimes take test rides, and I have to say that the situation is still bad.
Just last week I caught a taxi driver, from the same group, and he looked surprised to see me again.
He charged me 560 Czech crowns for three kilometres, and claimed the amount was 56 crowns (he used the trick with the decimal point).
It had a receipt, so I called the police and this taxi driver was delightfully, cheeky when he kept asking the police officers when he would be paid those 56 crowns.
A similar case.
The taxi driver put a sticker over the decimal on the clock to lift 357 crowns from tourists.
Is it safe to say that these fraudsters have not stopped their activities even after you have shown the faces of those who charged ridiculous amounts for a short ride?
They have an incredible cheek.
What happened to the taxi driver who demanded his 56 crowns?
The police sent him away, claiming they cannot discuss the matter any further there because he issued a receipt.
I think that this will be also an issue in court (proceedings against six taxi drivers and one former official).
On the one side, there will be a taxi driver with his receipts and on the other, the police.
In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Magistrate is not allowed to use secret recordings from the taxi as evidence in court.
When I filmed the series about their scams, the taxi drivers themselves told me about this precedent.
Nevertheless, I always only wanted to use the footage in the reports.
Are you worried that this could effectively result in them walking free?
I hope that the judges will understand that no taxi driver can make a living charging six or ten crowns per kilometre.
You spoke about the trick with the decimal point, which the fraudsters use to scam foreign customers.
Is this still happening or are they worried to use this trick after you have reported on it?
I think that by broadcasting the report we have made this trick even more popular.
I was sitting in a taxi recently, and the taxi driver was bragging that he was the only honest taxi driver.
But then I noticed that there was a black tape at the side of the taximeter clock.
When I asked him what it was, he replied:
If fines did not quite work as a deterrent, will a trial of their colleagues do the trick?
Is there something at all that could deter them from scamming people?
You said that you believed that they would always find a way how to cheat.
I do not think that there are any truly effective deterrents.
However, they could be pushed out from the taxi ranks,
either by honest taxi drivers, who should really fight more to squeeze them out.
It is my experience that the fair taxi drivers are thankfully in the majority.
Do they want to push back against those who are damaging the reputation of their services?
There is a will, but they lack the skills.
They do not quite know how to handle the situation, and they find it difficult to formulate in more certain terms what they want.
When they staged the demonstration (because of blanket restrictions proposed by the office of the Mayor of Prague Adriana Krnáčová), they did not come across as if they knew exactly what they wanted.
On the one hand, they claimed that their protest was not against Uber, that they only want the same conditions as Uber does, on the other they said they wanted more than Uber.
The result was that they completely stopped the flow of traffic in Prague, which served as the best possible advertisement for Uber.
How do you rate overall the approach of the Prague Magistrate to the issue of fare overcharging?
It is obvious, that the criminal police had to get involved to handle the matter.
The Magistrate did not have clout to deal with the problem.
They had a mole there who was passing on information, which means that their taxi department's efforts were futile for several years.
I hope that they will ask the official to pay for all the checks that came to nothing because of his activities, so that he realises what he has done.
I think that this is the worst thing.
I was even with him on one of these test rides as I discovered when I checked the schedule afterwards.
It has been several months since you have released the final episodes of your show.
What was the response?
I mainly heard from foreign viewers, who were our primary focus.
Whenever my friends are over from abroad, I play them the videos.
When we then go for a walk, they are surprised to find that the people from the footage are still there at Staroměstské náměstí -
especially those infamous Prague celebrities.
Seriously,
I would build a fence around them like in a museum.
Museum of communism right here on the street.
My last question is clear.
Do you take a taxi when you need it?
Yes I do.
I use taxis where I can pay by card rather than cash.
I use services such as Uber or Liftago, where the drivers have no chance to cheat
There are also many taxi companies which are fair.
I have only hailed a cab on a street once since then.
Once I got into the taxi, the driver said:
Bém disguised as an Italian tourist.
The fraudulent practices of taxi drivers were an issue already back in 2005.
The former Mayor, Pavel Bém, took a test ride disguised as an Italian tourist, and the driver immediately overcharged him by two hundred Czech crowns.
The journalist Rubeš had a worse experience.
The taxi driver charged him 820 Czech crowns for a journey from Staroměstské to Václavské náměstí, which roughly translates to 195 crowns per kilometre as the documentary makers discovered.
The Prague Magistrate has set the maximum price at 28 crowns per kilometre.
The footage also reveals other surprising amounts being charged: for example a two kilometre ride from Pařížská to Truhlářská tourist costing a tourist 400 crowns.
The taxi drivers hailed from the taxi rank near Karluv Most were also ripping off customers.
They charge up to 600 crowns for a 2.5 kilometre ride to Anděl.
Marble is mainly cleaned with clean water, avoiding chemicals as much as possible and the longer the better.
It is fairly easy to clean even though from time to time you need a scalpel to remove the dirt from the creases.
It is not easy and it is not fast, said the restorer Vanesa Trostová from Oldřichov v Hájích.
What she does is very impressive: the tomb is enclosed in scaffolding, which she has to keep climbing up and down.
"A restorer has to be diligent, patient and not too demanding with respect to the working conditions," she said.
This is by far not her first restoration work in the Frýdlant region.
She was behind the restoration of the stone elements of the façade in the rear wing of the Frýdlant Town Hall, the statue of St. Mary Magdalene in , Zátiší, the statue of St. John of Nepomuk in Frýdlant, Pieta in Okružní ulice in Frýdlant, Marian Column in Frýdlant or Atlanta in Nové Město pod Smrkem.
The restoration work on the gravestone of Melchior of Redern, his wife Catherine and their son Christoph began already in 2011.
We are currently removing deposits of dirt and crusts from the surface of the stone elements, and securing loose stone parts against falling and movement; they may be anchored to the wall or to one another.
We are also going to treat and preserve the surface.
The tomb will once again have gold inscriptions.
"Next, the inscriptions on marble slabs will be gilded with pure gold leaf," said Věra Sobotová, the national heritage official from the Frýdlant Magistrate.
We do not have any records of the tomb ever being repaired.
A closer look has revealed interesting holes, drilled into the marble columns.
There are hundreds of years old, and they are remnants of the gravestone decoration.
It was richly decorated, but unfortunately after the raid by the Swedes during the Thirty Years' War, it all disappeared.
They literally stripped it bare, said Ms Sobotová.
The restorers feel quite at home in the Church of the Holy Cross.
After the flood in 2010, it was necessary to put the tombstones, which were submerged in order, we had to restore the baptismal font, the wall paintings inside the tomb and the tomb itself now.
"We would also like to restore the stained glass in the future," said Ms Sobotová.
The church is otherwise in a very good condition as we invest every year in its repairs and maintenance.
The restoration work on the Redern family tomb will cost in total 128 thousand Czech crowns.
This will be covered by grants as the city will not invest its own funds in this phase of the restoration work.
One hundred thousand crowns will come from the regional round of the competition "Historic city of 2015", the balance of 28 thousand crowns will be contributed by the Ministry of Culture, said the Mayor of Frýdlant Dan Ramzer.
It was the decision of the Municipal Council to release the winnings to restore the tomb.
The views of experts on the future performance of selected foreign markets tracked by indices compared with the Czech capital market (PX) over a horizon of one month and half a year.
Markets are characterised by growth and low volatility.
Hardly anyone predicted it at the beginning of the year.
The US-based S&P 500, which went through a 12% correction in February, is now at a new all-time high, and it has gained another 7% since the start of the year.
This seems to confirm the rule of thumb that traders should not bet against the interests of central banks, which have so far always achieved what they set out to do.
In a situation where US stocks are trading at their all-time highs, volatility is again decreasing. Volatility is currently at its lowest since 2014, when markets were growing thanks to the quantitative easing programme of the Federal Reserve and the volatility index (VIX) held steady below 12 percent.
This is hardly a surprise.
Although the Federal Reserve keeps preparing the markets for a gradual increase in interest rates, quantitative easing in Europe and in Japan is still in full swing, and in the past week, the Bank of England also joined the party by committing to buy bonds worth 60 billion pounds over a period of six months.
A new wave of quantitative easing is thus pushing the already-low yields even lower, and contributes to the almost complete elimination of risk and fear of the future.
How long will this party last?
This is, of course, the million dollar question.
There are currently no risks in sight, the world economy is going through a period of almost constant growth without any major fluctuations, the situation in the commodity markets and in China is stabilising and Brexit is no longer a topic, so we should not be surprised if US shares continued in this relatively calm mode going forward.
Shame that Juncker did not take a leaf from Klaus's book.
I am very happy that my friend Michel Barnier has accepted this important and challenging task.
I wanted an experienced politician for this difficult job, said the European Commission President, Juncker, when he appointed the French politician (who is indeed experienced having held so many different supranational political functions that it would be hard to find a better example of so-called European elites) to be the chief Brexit negotiator for the European Commission.
Juncker's choice was a blow to any hope that it would be in the interest of the EU to seek forms of future friendly coexistence with the UK.
However, most of the British media interpreted the appointment of Barnier to be an act of war on the part of Juncker.
Barnier is a die-hard European federalist,
and he hates the UK.
As the European Commissioner for the Internal Market (2009-2014) he was in charge of reforming the European banking law.
His view was uniquely hostile as he proved to be an unrepentant enemy of the Anglo-Saxon free-market concept and model of capitalism.
Barnier supports multilateral regulations and he co-authored the concept of so-called banking union detesting anything that comes from the City of London and pushing through heavy-handed regulation of the financial sector and services.
Michel Barnier, who will be representing Paris in a dispute with London, is likely to be a tough, relentless and ruthless negotiator.
This probably is not good news.
In this context, it is difficult not to look back at the peaceful separation of the Czechoslovak Federation, which was largely the brainchild of the Prime Minister Vaclav Klaus, who used his insight, skill and empathy in the negotiations.
This is why Czechs and Slovaks can be today the closest friends and allies.
It is a pity that Juncker has not taken a leaf from Vaclav Klaus's book in this regard.
It would be to the greater benefit of all of us!
Putin in the centre of a political earthquake?
The Kremlin leader dismissed his close ally and confidant Ivanov.
The Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday sacked his chief of staff Sergey Ivanov.
He will be replaced by Anton Vajno.
This was reported by the Russian media, citing a press release put out by Kremlin's press office.
Putin signalled that he has relieved Ivanov from his duties at his own request.
At a meeting broadcast by the Rossiya 24 TV channel, the Russian president said that he had accommodated Ivanov's wish not serve longer than four years as chief of staff. A wish expressed apparently when he took office.
At the same time, he announced that Mr Ivanov had been appointed Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport.
The news of the replacement at the top of the president's office has come as a surprise. Ivanov will be replaced by his former deputy, Vajno.
Ivanov, who is 63, is considered to be one of Putin's closest allies.
Ivanov had a long career in the KGB and then the FSB and in the past he held the positions of defence minister and deputy prime minister.
Now he is also vacating the post of the chair of the president's security council.
During the meeting with Putin, Ivanov said that he was a record holder in terms of holding the position of chief of staff.
He lasted four years and eight months.
In this context, he noted that during the 25 years since the role of chief of staff was established, there were 11 people holding the position.
Neither Kvitová nor the double act of Strýcová and Šafářová will be playing in the finals.
None of Friday's matches have so far been successfully converted into a place in the final.
First to lose was Petra Kvitová, who was beaten by the Puerto Rican surprise Monica Puig in three sets 4:4, 6:1 and 3:6.
Kvitová was shortly followed by the Czech double players Strýcová and Šafářová.
The pair, who defeated the Williams sisters, was close to winning the first set, but then missed two set balls and the Russians eventually won the set in a tiebreaker.
They then proceeded to lose the second set 4:6.
Czech rowing recorded some success during the morning programme in Rio: Ondřej Synek won his semifinal in single sculls by beating Chroatia's Damir Martin almost by a second despite easing a bit at the end of the race.
Today was a good day, the conditions were great, the wind had calmed down.
I tried to conserve my power as much as possible, Synek said.
In contrast, his opponents had to fight,
so this may make things easier tomorrow.
I'm not saying that it will be easy, but things are looking good, said the rower from Dukla Prague.
Mirka Topinková-Knapková did not follow in Synek's footsteps.
The thirty-five-year-old rower came in fourth in her semifinal and on Saturday, she will start in the B finals, where she will fight for seventh to twelfth place.
She will not be able to defend her gold from London.
This is the first time I failed to advance to the final at the Olympic Games.
It is disappointing, but it was a quality race and I gave it my all.
Simply put, the competition was better, said Topinková Knapková.
She fought until the end believing that she will reach the elite six in her fourth consecutive games.
She only gave up shortly before the finish line.
I knew that the race was wide open, anyone could have advanced to the final.
I was surprised by the Chinese rower and her strong finish.
I thought that I would be able to beat the Austrian to progress to the final.
Unfortunately, she delivered a performance of her lifetime, said the 2011 world champion.
The young shooter Filip Nepejchal was far outside the finals as he failed to qualify for the second time, this time in small-bore rifle prone
event in which he finished 33rd.
The Russian team performed best in the qualification.
Sergei Kamensky advanced from the first place having scored 629 points and Kirill Grigoryan from the second with 628.9 points.
In comparison, Nepejchal only scored 620.5 points.
The first track and field athletes have started their campaigns, among them the Czech heptathletes Kateřina Cachová and Eliška Klučinová.
After the second discipline, Cachová is currently in the eleventh place, and the Czech record holder, Eliška Klučinová in the twenty-second.
Britain's Katarina Johnson-Thompson, who cleared 1.98 cm in the high jump, and Belgium's Nafissatou Thiam are currently in the lead.
Both have produced historically best results in high jump in the heptathlon.
They both tried to clear 201cm but failed.
The Germans or Russians, who is worse?
the German society has gone through a period of profound self-reflection, but the Russian society did not.
Both Eurasian nations produced dictators and regimes in the 20th century which were inhuman, brutal and horrific.
From 1917 to 1989, the Russian Bolsheviks contributed to the 94 millions of victims of communism, as recorded in the Black Book Of Communism, whether this was related to everyday individual repressions, targeted famine, incompetent warfare or inhuman experiments.
The Nazis wiped out in an inhuman way about 6 million Jews and in total the total number of victims of the Second World War is estimated at 60 million.
Both Germans and the Soviets carried out atrocities in the occupied or abandoned territories.
In Germany or the USSR, it was not only a few individuals who were guilty of these atrocities. Large sways of population took part in these crimes, whether actively or passively as a result of cowardice or putting their heads in the sand.
This was not only exclusive to these two nations, we Czechs are also guilty.
In Germany, the process of denazification started in the immediate aftermath of the war, followed by the Nuremberg Tribunal.
The most important thing, however, came later.
Dad, grandpa, how could you take part in such atrocities?
How could you!
It brought real reflection and healing to the society.
Until recently, the German elites were mainly concerned with the prosperity of the country, elimination of poverty and welfare of the country's citizens.
They may have other (often naively-idealistic) goals, but they cannot be accused of trying to annex Alsace-Lorraine or launching military attacks against another country - motivated by revenge.
There was no period of reflection in Russia after they lost the cold war.
The window of opportunity to make any positive changes has definitely closed at the turn of the millennium when the former KGB (sic!) officer Vladimir Putin came to power.
Criminal past is often celebrated in Russia
The main policy of Putin's Russia is revenge, conquest of the lost territories and the humiliation of the West.
Health, prosperity and the future of the nation is not important in today's Russia.
Beat your own and others will be afraid.
I still believe that this only the product of decades of despotic regimes, that the Russians are not genetically or culturally inferior-destined to Asian-style (self) tyranny.
Who benefits from increasing tensions over Crimea?
The Ukrainian army.
In the last days and hours, the situation on the Ukrainian-Russian border near Crimea has deteriorated.
Who benefits from the growing tensions?
After a long period of relative calm the relations between Ukraine and Russia have dropped to a new low.
The pretext for the Ukrainian side was the Crimean peninsula, which has been annexed by Russia more than two years ago, and it is now part of its territory.
Contradicting reports are coming from the two opposing sides, which we cannot independently verify, and therefore, we should ask ourselves the old question Cui bono?
According to reports from Moscow, the Ukrainian side launched terrorist attacks on Crimea, which, naturally, the Ukrainian side denies and in turn accuses the Kremlin of provocation.
The Ukrainian side responded to the information about the arrest of the members of the Ukrainian special forces on the territory of Russia by claiming - as they did in the Savchenko case - that they must have been abducted.
If we accepted the Ukrainian version of events, in what way would Russia benefit from a further escalation in the situation surrounding Crimea?
The simple answer is: they would not.
The escalation of tensions around Crimea can only harm Russia, mainly from the West in the form of even tougher sanctions and strengthening of the anti-Russian campaign.
Ukraine disappeared from the spotlight last year, as the focus shifted mainly towards the refugee crisis.
The Ukrainian leadership has lost all credit, as the approval rating of President Poroshenko hovers around 15%.
Ukraine's economy would have gone bankrupt a long ago if it were not for the generous funding from the EU and the IMF.
In this situation, the Ukrainian regime desperately needs to attract attention to its country to justify requests for further financial assistance in an attempt to improve their reputation with Ukrainian voters.
President Poroshenko and other members of the executive branch want to be seen again as strong men who are not afraid to stand up to Russia.
We can only hope that all those who are trying to unleash an open conflict between Ukraine and Russia eventually realise that they are responsible not only for the lives of soldiers but also civilians on both sides and stop any hostilities in time.
The US security services are said to have known about Russian hacking attacks for a year.
Information about Russian cyber attacks came to light last month when the FBI announced that it was investigating the attack on the Democratic Party's servers.
Nevertheless, the official reports have so far failed to mention that there was any Russian involvement in the attacks.
Moscow denied any involvement in the attack.
The report about the security services monitoring the alleged Russian attack was top secret, because its disclosure would have made it clear that the US services are doing just that, and it also could compromise the methods and sources used.
It is alleged that two Russian intelligence agencies were involved in the attack.
The new Advisory Board for Cyber Security
According to the Reuters agency, the material on monitoring the Russian hacks was encoded and only a small group of experts had access to it.
Only a small group of eight leading members of Congress, known as the Gang of Eight in the US was briefed.
It consists of the chiefs of both chambers Mitch McConnell and Paul Ryan, the democrat chairs in both chambers, Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid, and four members of the Armed Services and Security Committee of the Congress.
The acting head of the Democratic Party Donna Brazile on Thursday announced that she was setting up an Advisory Board for Cyber Security to "prevent future attacks and to ensure first-class protection of the servers of the Democratic Party."
The smoked salmon from the Albert supermarket contained a dangerous parasite.
The chain apologised.
Based on the health complaint from a consumer after eating the Wild Smoked Salmon- pieces 100 g, with the use-by date of 22.11.2016, the Prague hygienists carried out inspections of the Albert stores at Václavské náměstí and Na Můstku.
The inspection found that batch L23012562/T4 with a use-by date of 22.11.2016, the customer complained about was no longer available and sample was therefore taken from a product from the same batch with a use-by date of 11.12.2016.
Laboratory tests confirmed the presence of Anisakis spp., Anisakis simplex.
This is a common parasite present in the digestive tract of marine fish and mammals.
This worm is dangerous to humans as the larvae ingested can invade the internal organs through the stomach wall, said Šticha.
We are very sorry about the problem with this branded product.
We immediately withdrew the batch from sale, and we have also withdrawn all other batches of this product as a matter of precaution.
This is the responsibility of the supplier with whom are communicating, and we have also had the product tested, Barbora Vanko, the Albert spokeswoman said to Novinky.
Any customers who have purchased the product, can return it to any of our stores for a full refund.
The larvae are normally destroyed during processing i.e. during freezing or heating.
The seller was Nekton-Vrňata.
The hygienists informed the veterinary services in Prague and Central Bohemia about the dangerous product.
According to the server bezpecnostpotravin.cz, people can suffer from anisakiasis as a result of ingesting the parasite. The symptoms include stomach pains, vomiting and nausea, but some patients do not have any symptoms at all, said ČTK.
People can show symptoms on hour or up to two weeks after ingesting an infected fish which has not been sufficiently processed.
After three weeks from the onset of the disease, the larvae usually spontaneously leave the digestive tract of the host.
Adult worms and larvae are sensitive to high or low temperatures, and are therefore killed either during heat processing or freezing.
The veterinary service has inspected the salmon at the premises of the recipient of the imported goods in the Central Bohemia.
Three of the five examined samples tested positive for the parasite.
According to the State Veterinary Service (SVS), the shipment containing 1700 products came to the Czech Republic at the beginning of April.
It was mainly delivered to the Ahold chain of supermarkets, which received 919 packs to date.
We are currently in the process of withdrawing all unsold stocks from the stores, said the spokesman of SVS Petr Pejchal to ČTK on Friday.
Upon discovery of the positive samples, the veterinary service immediately banned the delivery of further products from the warehouse.
Seventeen-year-old British teenager wanted to flee from Raqqa, and is reported to have been killed by a Russian air strike.
After the initial excitement and quick marriage to a jihadist, who was soon killed, came the sobering.
The caliphate paradise quickly turned into hell on earth for the British girls from which there was no escape.
The girl was, according to relatives, in touch with her sister Halima.
She called her repeatedly in the UK and confided to her that he wanted to come home.
To leave the Islamic State is like an attempt to escape from Alcatraz.
They have orders to shoot indiscriminately, the Daily Telegraph quoted the lawyer of the family of the dead girl, Tasnime Akunjee.
The family was able to trace the girl to Raqqa, where she contacted them from for the last time.
This was followed by the news of her death, which cannot be verified.
The family communicated with her from their flat in East London.
They discussed how she could leave Raqqa and cross the Turkish border.
There hoped to reunite with the former student there.
It appears that Kadiza may have been killed before she had a chance to escape, because the house, where she was staying was levelled to the ground in an air raid in May, said ITV News.
The UK TV broadcaster added that the bomb was probably dropped by a Russian aircraft attacking the IS stronghold in Syria.
You would do anything to get your child out of the danger zone, said Tasnim Akunjee, the family lawyer.
During the week when (Kadiza) was probably planning her escape, an Austrian girl was caught when she tried to escape and according to available information, beaten to death in public.
I think that (Kadiza) interpreted it as a warning and decided to play it safe" said Akunjee according to the BBC.
The family would do anything.
Kadiza Sutlana left for Syria together with her friends Amira Abase and Shamima Begum, who were both just 15 at the time, on 17 February last year.
They said at home that they were only going out.
Instead, they went to Gatwick Airport, from where they flew to Turkey, and then they crossed to the IS-held territory.
According to the family lawyer, the family did everything in their power to get Kadiza back.
You would do absolutely anything to get your child out of the danger zone, and this family did everything in their power to get their daughter back home.
This was not possible without risking that they will get caught, the lawyer added.
The only positive aspect is that the Kadiza's fate can serve as a deterrent to other girls or boys who allow themselves to be fooled by IS propaganda.
"There are many cases where people went there, they realised how things really are and how much the reality differs from the promises and propaganda spread by the Islamic State and they wanted to come back," said Akunjee.
The fate of Kadiza's classmates is not known.
As their families have not received any communications from them for some time now they have to brace themselves that they are most likely dead.
Pay to go to jail.
In Scotland, you can go to prison without committing a crime.
For many centuries, Inveraray, the seat of the Duke of Argyll, was the principal county town of Argyll.
From the mid-18th century the courts met in the Town House on Front Street, and the ground floor below the courtroom served as the county prison.
The conditions were terrible for prisoners and unsurprisingly, there were many escape attempts and
some of which were successful.
The town representatives, therefore, decided to move the prison to a new location.
The new building was completed in 1848. It was much more prisoner-friendly as it was heated and lit by gas.
It did not stay open for long and it finally closed by the end of August 1889 for economic reasons, as by this time, the smaller county jails were expensive and inefficient to run.
Prisoner stories and ghost hunting
The prison opened its doors to the public hundred years later. Visitors can see for themselves how different the conditions were in the old building compared to the new building.
Guides in period costumes make the experience even more authentic.
Visitors can see the torture chamber where they can learn about the many forms of punishment inflicted on criminals, whether it involved breaking their fingers or branding theme with hot irons.
During the tour, tourists have the opportunity to have the warder lock them up in a cell, mainly as a photo op but also to experience for themselves what it is like to be behind bars.
Moreover, the Inveraray Jail has a reputation as one of Scotland’s most haunted locations.
It has already been the destination of numerous groups dedicated to researching paranormal activities, and the museum continues to cater for people interested in ghost hunts.
Such a night will set you back at least 300 pounds, which is roughly 9,500 Czech crowns.
Inveraray is not only a popular tourist attraction, it is also renowned for great food, surrounding scenery and history.
Migrants want benefits
Most refugees who are flooding into Europe are economic migrants.
Young Russians make fun of themselves.
This is how TV shows would look like if we were making them.
A group of Russian artists, who call themselves 2D Among Us, is poking fun at mother Russia.
They use Photoshop and humour to create montages, which demonstrate how famous TV shows and films would look if they were made in Russia.
A tolerant city.
Prague is a popular destination for the LGBT community.
The Association of Czech Travel Agencies (AČCKA) was expecting up to 20 thousand visitors to visit Prague as part of Prague Pride,
the Executive Director of AČCKA Kateřina Petříčková said on Friday.
The sixth edition of Prague Pride started on 8 August. The event celebrates the culture and lives of the LGBT community and its members.
Last year the event attracted about 35,000 people.
"Thanks to the widespread tolerance and a range of specialised venues, Prague is among the most popular destinations for the LGBT community," said Petříčková.
According to a survey conducted by the organisers, the event's foreign visitors spend on average 3,100 Czech crowns per person per day.
Gay tourists have access to special maps of Prague with a complete list of all gay and gay-friendly bars, clubs, coffee houses and restaurants in the form of mobile applications, etc.
"As tourists, the LGBT clientele is very lucrative, because they enjoy luxury travel and high standard of travel services and they spend far more than anyone else", said Ms Petříčková.
We are also holding the first Pride Tourism Symposium as part of the festival.
It serves as a platform for presentations by experts from the LGBT tourism sector from Europe, USA and China.
The festival continues until Sunday 14 August.
The main theme this year is love, but there are also several other thematic areas, such as family, AIDS prevention and transgender issues.
The highlight of the festival will be the traditional parade featuring floats, from Václavské náměstí to Letná.
Over the past few years, thousands of people took part in the parade, which will hold one-minute silence this year in honour of the victims of the June attack at the nightclub in Orlando, where an attacker shot and killed 49 people, mostly gay men.
Pat and Mat turn forty this year.
The die-hard handymen Pat & Mat, who are synonymous with DIY gone wrong, have been entertaining children and adults for forty years.
The pilot episode of the children's bedtime TV show premiered on 12 August 1976.
The animated TV series, which has been aired in more than hundred countries around the world, was inspired by the cartoons about two handymen Mr Ouholíček and Mr Sedlec, which the artist and the series director Lubomír Beneš created for a magazine.
Lubomír Beneš then invited the dramaturg Jiri Kubicek and fellow artist Vladimír Jiránek to work with him and together they created the short film entitled Kuťáci (The Tinkers).
They only got their current look featuring their signature yellow and red jumpers, beanie hat and a beret in 1979 when the authors started work on a new series for Slovak television at Krátký film studios in Prague.
The characters' names became Pat and Mat in 1985, when the creators started shooting the series directly for Krátký film Praha.
In 1990, Lubomír Beneš founded his own studio of animated films AIF in Prague and Zurich where he created further episodes.
After his death in 1995, further episodes were created by other makers, including Beneš's son Mark.
There are currently over ninety episodes with these clumsy handymen who are always good-natured and full of optimism, ideas and DIY enthusiasm despite their mishaps. They are always happy with the results of their work, which they by making a signature and "...a je to!" ["...and it's done!"].
Pat and Mat have even expanded their franchise from television screens to books, DVDs and theatres and the characters or other toys featuring the image of Pat and Mat are among the most sought-after toys in any toy store.
A fairy tale for Fiji and the two-year-old Harmony.
It is the end of the week, and we want to celebrate fairy tales; we have chosen one for you from the sporting world and another one from real life.
Both have a good ending.
So let's take a look.
Fiji has achieved a historic success.
Why is the whole country celebrating?
The two-year British girl has an identical friend and she is happy.
What do people spend most of their money on at airports?
This is a Friday overview from the world's websites.
The first medal from the Olympic Games.
The island state of Fiji is celebrating a historical success.
Fiji's rugby team defeated in the final of the Olympic sevens rugby tournament the team of Great Britain.
This is the first Olympic gold medal ever won by Fiji.
It took them sixty years from sending their first delegations to the Olympic Games.
The person most credited with Fiji's success is the team manager,
who happens to be somewhat ironically a Brit, Ben Ryan.
He has been managing the team since 2013 and after the final, he had a reason to celebrate in contrast to his compatriots.
"Let's play freely and lightly and see if we can handle the biggest game in our history," said the manager before the final.
Fiji eventually dominated the match, and the small island state with 900 thousand inhabitants is now experiencing an Olympic fairy tale,
as reported by the French daily Le Monde.
A new friend and good luck for a little girl.
Two-year-old Harmonie-Rose Ivy Allen, who lost all her limbs when she was 11 months old has a new friend.
A doll that looks like her.
She just said, "Mummy, she's just like me," Harmonie's mother told ABC News.
"She loves to take the arms and the legs off and they love to sit next to each other without the prosthetics on."
Harmonie fell ill with meningitis B when she was 11 months old. The doctors only gave her 10% chance of survival.
I love everything about her.
She is beautiful, smart, funny and never gives up.
She is quite upfront, too.
I have seen her introduce herself to another child by saying, "I'm Harmonie and I have no hands".
See how happy the little girl is about her new friend.
On what do we spend most money at airports?
According to CNN, people spend most money at airports for bottled water.
Hudson 's travel essential stores recently released a list of the top 10 items sold last year at airports.
Beverages are king,
taking eight of the 10 top slots.
The ninth place is occupied by M&M Peanut king-size with coconut flavour.
Can you guess what is the last item on the top ten list?
The only non-edible item.
According to CNN it is "The Wall Street Journal."
The other popular newspapers sold at airports include:
Favourite magazines were "US Weekly," "In Touch," "The Economist."
Rowing supremos.
We are just going to win, Murray and Bond said laughing.
The rowers Eric Murray and Hamish Bond from New Zealand have dominated men's coxless pairs for seven years, and they reiterated their dominance at the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.
On the face of it, they looked like an odd couple when they both switched to a smaller crew after the Beijing Olympics. Since 2009, they have completely obliterated their competition.
In Thursday's finale they have recorded their 69th win in a row on the Rodrigo de Freitas Lagoon.
What do we do differently from other crews?
We are simply better looking, joked Murray during the Olympic regatta when he had to answer questions about the dominance of the New Zealand pair.
Honestly, we don't do a hell of a lot differently.
We train hard, really hard,
and just constantly try to refine our technique, that is our philosophy, Murray said on a more serious note.
Their domination is also remarkable given their different physique.
While Murray is almost two meters tall and weighs 100 kilos, Bond is five centimetres shorter and 15 kilos lighter.
Moreover, they have completely different personalities -
Bond is studying finance, and Murray has been involved i.a. in a charity boxing match.
This is likely the reason why they do not spend much time together outside rowing.
Eric gets in the boat with the attitude that we cannot lose.
We are just going to win.
I have a tendency to think about what might go wrong, Bond admitted who clearly demonstrated during the press conference that Murray had the more dominant personality of the two.
It was Murray who answered the questions first, while Bond waited his turn.
On the water, they are destroying their competition with their quiet strength.
They keep the pace from the start, and even though they often do not lead the race at the halfway mark, they gradually go faster - nobody else can do that.
We race on a two kilometre stretch of water, and we never want to test our limits during the first kilometre of the race.
All we do is to try and race at a pace nobody else can keep up with.
We know what we have to do to win, said the thirty-four-year-old Murray.
Together with his four years younger partner, he won seven gold medals at the World Championships.
They also triumphed in 2007, when they were part of the men's four without coxswain.
Following an unexpected defeat of the bigger crew at the Beijing Olympics, Murray and Bond decided to break out into a pair.
At the Olympic Games in London, they avenged the biggest defeat of their career, and they reiterated their supremacy in Rio.
London was very intense.
We did everything our coach told us. No questions asked.
This time it was more enjoyable.
We knew it would be very hard, and we had to make sure that we are mentally strong.
We know that everyone wants to knock us from our number one position.
We walk around with the target on our backs.
That is why we try to be a step ahead of the competition, he added.
Is a qualification agreement necessary?
If I did not register, there would not be a qualification agreement. Does this mean that I could move to a different hospital after a few months?
Is it even possible to work after completing the course without having to register with a specialised training programme?
I am asking because there is an opening in the field I would like to work in. The only problem is that the hospital is far away. There may be another opening in six months in a hospital much closer to me where I would like to work.
I do not know how to handle the situation during the six months or so, the asker continued.
The question is answered by Mgr. Lenka Vlková.
You are not required under any law to sign a qualification agreement with an employer - hospital.
Qualification agreement is a legal concept which is governed by the Labour Code, and may be concluded between the employee and the employer to recover costs associated with upgrading the skills and enhancing the employee's qualifications.
In the healthcare sector, there has been a long-term pushback against these agreements to ensure the mobility of health workers and not all hospitals currently require this agreement.
Act No 95/2004 Coll., on the conditions of obtaining and recognizing professional qualifications and specialised qualifications for the medical profession of doctor, dentist, pharmacist, as amended, specifically states that participation in specialised training is considered to be an enhancement of qualification (rather than an upgrade).
This means that under the Labour Code, a qualification agreement can only be concluded if the costs reach at least CZK 75,000.
There is also no obligation under the law to apply for specialised training.
The law only stipulates the application requirements for being included in specialisation training.
The doctor is, however, entitled by law to practice medicine alone on the basis of completing the relevant university studies under the conditions stipulated by law (under the expert supervision of a doctor with specialist qualifications in the relevant field).
The law foresees a situation where professional experience in another field of specialisation can count towards specialised medical training of the doctor in question, if its content and scope relate to the relevant educational programme.
In theory, it should be possible to include time worked elsewhere, which is the case here.
Given that I do not know the details of this case, I would recommend a consultation with the relevant department of the Ministry of Health (department of science and medical professions), because the Ministry of Health is required by law to provide advisory and consultancy services relating to the specialist training and its structure.
Free advice is also offered by the Czech Medical Chamber, the membership of which is compulsory for all medical professionals.
Aleppo doctors appeal to the US to intervene.
"We have seen no effort on behalf of the United States to lift the siege (of the rebel-held part of the city by government forces) or even use its influence to push the parties to protect civilians," said the letter addressed to the White House according to the AFP news agency.
"We do not need tears or sympathy or even prayers; what we desperately need is a no-fly zone over eastern Aleppo to stop the attacks, and we need international action to prevent Aleppo from being again surrounded," said the doctor.
Russian forces which support the army loyal to President Bashar al-Assad, announced that from today, military hostilities in Aleppo will stop for three hours every day to allow humanitarian convoys safe passage.
All military activity, including air strikes and artillery fire is supposed to stop from 9:00 to 12:00 CEST.
The UN Emergency Relief Coordinator, Stephen O'Brien welcomed the initiative, but stressed that what is needed is at least a two-day truce.
According to AFP, the letter to Obama was signed by 15 of the 35 doctors working in the rebel-controlled eastern part Aleppo.
They wrote that for five years, they witnessed the violent, cruel deaths of countless patients, friends and colleagues.
The world has stood by and remarked how complicated Syria was, while doing little to protect us.
Recent offers of evacuation form the regime and Russia had sounded like thinly-veiled threats, said the surgeons paediatricians and other doctors.
Doctors said that last month, there were 42 attacks on medical facilities in Syria, 15 of which were hospitals in which they work.
What pains us most, as doctors, is choosing who will live and who will die.
Young children are sometimes brought into our emergency rooms so badly injured that we have to prioritise those with better chances,
or simply do not have the equipment to help them, said the doctors.
Two weeks ago, four newborn babies, gasping for air suffocated to death after a blast cut the oxygen supply to their incubators.
Gasping for air, their lives ended before they had really begun.
In recent weeks, forces loyal to Bashar al-Assad supported by Russian forces have seized control of the rebel-held east Aleppo with over 200,000 people still trapped inside with no food supplies.
The rebels, who are under constant attack by Russian and Syrian air force, managed to break through the siege on Saturday and launch a counteroffensive.
Both sides have added reinforcements both in the city and the surrounding areas.
New Russia-Ukraine gas row fears
A fresh gas price dispute is brewing between Ukraine and Russia, raising the risk that Russian exports of the fuel to western Europe may be affected.
Most of Russia's gas exports to the European Union (EU) are piped through Ukraine and any row between the two nations is keenly watched.
Kiev has warned that if Moscow raises the price it has to pay for the gas it will charge Russia higher transit fees.
A previous dispute between the two last year reduced supplies to EU states.
The latest dispute between Kiev and Moscow comes as the Ukrainian government and Russia's state-owned gas monopoly, Gazprom, try to reach agreement on how much Ukraine must pay for Russian gas in 2008.
Gazprom says it will have to charge Ukraine more as it has agreed to pay up to 50% extra in 2008 for gas it sources from neighbouring Turkmenistan.
Analysts say this could mean Ukraine having to pay 40% more for its imports from Gazprom.
"It is important for us to use our arguments as one of the top gas transit states during talks," Ukraine's Economy Minister Anatoly Kinakh told the Reuters news agency.
"The changes in gas prices should no doubt be linked to our arguments about the levels of transit fees [to western Europe] via Ukraine."
The last major gas dispute between Moscow and Kiev saw Gazprom cut supplies to Ukraine in January 2006.
That lead to a knock-on fall in exports to western Europe, which sharply pushed up prices.
Russian gas accounts for one-quarter of the European Union's supplies.
Russia has the world's largest stocks of gas, but much of it remains under-developed.
As a result, Gazprom supplements its own supplies with gas from Turkmenistan and other central Asian former Soviet nations.
NHS 'must check foreign workers'
Scottish NHS boards need to improve criminal records checks for employees outside Europe, a watchdog has said.
The recommendation from Auditor General Robert Black came after a foreign doctor in Scotland was linked with the Glasgow Airport attack in June.
Mr Black also raised concerns that NHS Scotland had no accurate picture of the number of overseas staff it had.
But his report pointed out other key checks were properly carried out across a sample of five health authorities.
The auditor general looked into staff recruited outside European Economic Area countries, in the wake of the Glasgow Airport attack.
Bilal Abdullah, 28, an Iraqi doctor at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley, was arrested at the airport after a Jeep was driven into the doors of the main terminal building.
He was one of three doctors who appeared at the Old Bailey by video link in October, charged in connection with the suspected car bomb attempts in the UK.
NHS boards are expected to carry out pre-employment checks on overseas staff to ensure they have the qualifications, experience and authorisation to work in the UK.
Although Scots health boards use Disclosure Scotland to carry out criminal records checks, the agency has no jurisdiction to obtain such information outside Britain.
The auditor general's report has now said, among other recommendations, that the boards should take on Criminal Records Bureau guidance, which helps employers with checks in several overseas countries.
"Although we found the some of the personnel records had evidence of these checks, this is not done routinely," stated the report.
Mr Black said the Scottish NHS had a high level of compliance with its own pre-employment screening policies, but added: "Our report highlights areas where the system can be improved to ensure that accurate information is available on the number of overseas NHS staff."
BMA Scotland chairman Dr Peter Terry said it was "extremely unlikely" that pre-employment checks would identify potential NHS employees people who might commit future terrorist acts.
"The report suggests that current pre-employment checks are working well in NHS Scotland and it is not clear what added value the recommendations will deliver," he said.
Scottish health authorities said they currently had 1,161 overseas staff, the vast majority of them doctors and nurses.
But the auditor general warned the numbers were likely to be higher, partly because boards had problems identifying which staff were on indefinite leave to remain.
The investigation also found that established check procedures at NHS authorities in Ayrshire and Arran, Grampian, Greater Glasgow and Clyde, Lanarkshire, and Lothian were largely being met.
These included passport, work permit and qualification checks.
The Scottish Government is currently revising its policy and guidance on pre-employment checks for overseas staff in the NHS.
Health secretary Nicola Sturgeon said: "I was keen to have this work carried out in the wake of the terror attack on Glasgow Airport.
She added the Scottish Government, in conjunction with health boards, would consider the recommendations of the report and would ensure best practice was reflected in updated guidance on pre-employment checks for all staff - including those from overseas - it planned to publish next month.
Joy Division dominate film awards
Control, the biopic about late Joy Division singer Ian Curtis, has scooped five prizes at the British Independent Film Awards, including best film.
Trophies were also given to star Sam Riley, who worked in a warehouse until he was cast as Curtis, director Anton Corbijn, and co-star Toby Kebbell.
Dame Judi Dench was named best actress for thriller Notes On A Scandal.
And Bond star Daniel Craig won the Variety award for putting British film under the international spotlight.
The prizes were handed out in a ceremony at London's Roundhouse.
Control follows Curtis's rise to fame with Joy Division until his suicide in 1980, aged 23.
The black-and-white film - which features The Killers, David Bowie and New Order on the soundtrack - was shot for just £3m.
But it earned Dutch photographer Corbijn, previously best-known for the iconic cover of U2's Joshua Tree album, two awards - for best director and best debut director.
Rock music was the focus of another award-winner at the ceremony - as Julien Temple's film about Clash singer Joe Strummer took the Best Documentary prize.
The best actor gong went to Viggo Mortensen for his role as the driver to a Russian mafia boss in David Cronenberg's London-based thriller Easter Promises.
Ray Winstone, who has a reputation for playing tough guys, picked up the Richard Harris Award for outstanding contribution to British film.
The 50-year-old, whose films include Scum, Nil By Mouth and Sexy Beast, is currently filming Indiana Jones sequel The Kingdom Of The Crystal Skull.
Winstone said he was proud to receive the award, named in honour of Camelot and Harry Potter star Harris, who died in 2002.
"It was people like Richard Harris and Albert Finney that opened the doors for people like me," he said.
"I was lucky enough to meet Richard Harris a couple of times.
He's my type of guy, a great actor of the time, I'm really honoured."
The independent film awards, known as the Bifas, are selected by a panel which included filmmakers, actors and festival organisers.
Bifa supporters and patrons include Mike Figgis, Ken Loach, Ewan McGregor, Samantha Morton, Bill Nighy, Meera Syal and Michael Winterbottom.
Saudi Arabia arrests 208 over terror plot
Saudi Arabia revealed yesterday that it had arrested 208 militants for involvement in cells planning an imminent attack on an oil installation, as well as attacks on clerics and security forces.
State television in the world's biggest oil exporter said that one of the cells was planning to smuggle in missiles.
Sympathisers of al-Qaeda have mounted a campaign against the monarchy, an ally of the United States, since 2003, following the invasion of Iraq.
A cell of eight militants led by a foreign resident planned an attack on an oil facility in the Eastern Province, the TV report said.
Saudi Arabia has been building a 35,000-strong rapid reaction force to protect installations after a failed al-Qaeda attack in 2006 on the world's largest oil processing plant, at Abqaiq.
The report, citing an interior ministry statement, said 18 of those arrested belonged to a cell led by an "expert in launching missiles", who had slipped into the country.
It said the militants had planned to smuggle eight projectiles into the kingdom.
Another 22 of those detained were reported to be plotting to assassinate clerics and security forces.
The government has warned clerics to do more to stop Saudis heading to Iraq to join al-Qaeda militants fighting Allied forces and the US-backed Shiite Muslim government, which is considered heretical by hardline Sunni Saudis.
Al-Qaeda militants regard many clerics in Saudi Arabia as having been co-opted by the authorities into supporting the policies of the royal family, which dominates government.
Militants - boosted by calls from Osama bin Laden, the Saudi-born al-Qaeda leader, to target the pro-western Saudi government - have targeted foreign residential compounds, government buildings and energy-sector installations.
"This was a very large effort by security forces over the past... five months," an interior ministry spokesman told state television.
The arrests also included a "media cell" of 16 in Medina, which aimed to promote "takfiri thinking" - the ideology of Sunni Muslim radicals that supports violence against Muslims branded as infidels and apostates.
Those arrested also included 32 people accused of providing financial support to militants.
Climate on Venus may be glimpse of future for Earth
Venus may once have been a pleasant place to live, scientists said yesterday.
Data from an orbiting European spacecraft show the planet is even more like a wayward twin of Earth than was previously realised.
Venus is the Earth's closest planetary neighbour.
The two worlds are about the same size and occupy similar orbits, although Venus is slightly closer to the Sun.
Billions of years ago, Venus would have had conditions very similar to those on Earth and may even have been habitable, scientists now believe.
But a runaway carbon dioxide greenhouse effect, atmospheric erosion by solar radiation, and a slower rotation rate sent Venus down a very different development path.
Today the planet is stripped of water, has a surface temperature hot enough to melt lead and is ravaged by hurricane-force winds and lightning storms.
The findings from the European Space Agency's Venus Express probe, which has been studying the planet for a year, offer a sobering view of how Earth might develop given catastrophic changes to its climate.
Professor Fred Taylor, of Oxford University's department of physics, one of the Venus Express mission leaders, said: "It is becoming clear why the climate on Venus is so different from the Earth when the planets themselves are otherwise quite similar.
"Our new data make it possible to construct a scenario in which Venus started out like the Earth, possibly with a habitable environment, billions of years ago."
'Enriched uranium' seized by police
A kilo of radioactive material, reported to be enriched uranium, was seized by Slovak and Hungarian police yesterday.
A police spokesman said three people had been arrested and the material was being examined.
He would not confirm if it was enriched uranium but said it could have been sold for $1 million (£480,000).
Still wide open
Mitt Romney said he did not feel it was dignified for presidential candidates to take questions from a snowman.
Nonetheless, the Republican candidates for the presidency eventually agreed to face a YouTube debate, in which ordinary voters recorded questions on video and submitted them for broadcast to the candidates.
None of the questions aired on the evening of Wednesday November 28th were quite as ridiculous as the snowman who asked Democrats about global warming in the other party's YouTube debate.
But the questions, and answers, this time reflected much about the state of the Republican party heading into next year's election.
It is not known how exactly the producers of CNN, which co-sponsored the debate, chose which YouTube clips to show to the aspiring candidates.
But the first half-hour of the debate, the longest dedicated to any single issue, focused on immigration.
The subject is one of the most potent topics for Republicans.
CNN asked a panel of undecided voters to turn up a dial when they heard things that pleased them: the broadcaster noted spikes of approval when the candidates talked tough on borders.
The harshest and longest exchange of the evening came between Rudy Giuliani, the national front-runner, and Mr Romney, who has nudged ahead in the crucial early polls in Iowa and New Hampshire.
Mr Giuliani is trying to shake a reputation that he was easy on illegal immigration when he was mayor of New York.
He attacked Mr Romney, accusing the former Massachusetts governor of hiring illegal immigrants to work on his house.
The two sparred particularly fiercely as questioners asked if any candidate would support an "amnesty" (giving illegals a regular status and the possibility of citizenship).
Minor candidates like Duncan Hunter, a Californian congressman, and Tom Tancredo, a congressman from Colorado, managed to get digs in on the subject.
Neither man has a prayer at the nomination, but both remain in the race perhaps because they started beating the immigration drum earlier and harder than others.
At least on immigration the candidates, broadly, share the same views: tougher borders, intolerance for illegal migrants.
This topic, along with fears of toxic toys from China or other worries about the outside world, helps Republicans forget, or minimise, the divisions between libertarians and Christian conservatives.
But the debate grew distinctly awkward when other topics were raised.
Mr Giuliani was asked why he had supported gun control in the past.
John McCain and Mr Romney debated whether waterboarding should be considered as torture.
One questioner asked if the candidates believed every word of the Bible.
This led Mr Giuliani to stumble towards the position that while the Bible was his favourite book, he perhaps did not literally believe in the story of Jonah and the whale.
Another questioner asked whether Jesus would support the death penalty.
Mike Huckabee - now, against all expectations, in first place in a recent poll from Iowa thanks to his longstanding Christian conservatism - said that the death penalty was painful but necessary.
When pressed whether Jesus would be in favour, he got a laugh saying Jesus was too smart to run for office.
The race remains unusually wide open.
Mr Huckabee's surge in Iowa coincides with the libertarian Ron Paul's recent fundraising feats and his hooting cheers at Wednesday's debate.
These two have surged from the bottom because the party's two wings cannot yet agree on one of the better-known and more traditional candidates.
In 1980 and 2000, a candidate united the party early and convincingly with a winning message about America's greatness and winks to both of the party's wings.
This time the party is divided and the outcome is far from clear.
Labour pains
Gordon Brown has discovered yet another hole to fall into; his way out of it remains the same
As British political scandals go, this one is not particularly juicy.
No honours seem to have been sold, no politician's Parisian hotel bills picked up, no extramarital toes sucked.
But the revelation that a rich businessman disguised contributions to Britain's governing Labour Party of more than £650,000 ($1.3m) over four years under other people's names, and that the party failed to report it, is one the embattled Gordon Brown could well have done without.
Two months ago, when the prime minister ducked out of calling an election, stupidly insulting Britons' intelligence by claiming that opinion polls had not influenced this decision, the hope was that he would provide sturdy, efficient government.
Instead, as Vince Cable, the Liberal Democrats' increasingly witty stand-in leader, put it, the once feared Mr Brown has gone from Stalin to Mr Bean.
The cackhanded rescue of Northern Rock, a troubled bank, showed regulatory weakness and poor judgment under fire.
Ill-thought-out proposals to change the tax code have drawn business groups together against the government.
The tax authority's loss of 25m people's personal details revealed unimaginable administrative bungling.
A trio of retired generals launched a mutiny in the Lords, protesting against cuts in military spending: being armed-forces minister is, they claimed, a part-time job.
Now there are the multifaceted donations from David Abrahams; Peter Watt, Labour's general secretary (and its previous head of compliance), has already resigned.
None of this means that Mr Brown is headed irrevocably for the exit.
Yet governments can reach a tipping point after which they find it impossible to govern.
People neither like nor trust politicians, but usually suspend their disbelief when a new lot takes over.
Once it seems clear that a prime minister is unlikely to improve things, and may not even be around for long, that suspension is over: the civil service starts leaking; cabinet ministers start briefing; the press looks for bad-news stories; and government becomes defensive and unfocused.
In one way, Mr Brown's position is particularly difficult, because unlike other political leaders he cannot claim to be a new broom.
Much though he would like to disown Tony Blair, he was his senior lieutenant.
The problems to do with Northern Rock and the tax-authority records, for instance, are linked to decisions Mr Brown made as chancellor of the exchequer.
And even when he was not directly involved in Blairish mishaps - such as the long "cash for peerages" inquiry into political-party funding - voters may well assume he was.
Yet Mr Brown's predicament is not quite as bad as it looks.
The gaffes are not as appalling as the Tories are making out.
As with Mr Bean, no one has died, or been swindled outright.
And the remedy, painful though it may be, is to provide what Mr Brown's natural Stalinist tendencies have always promised: reliable, sound and slightly brutal government.
The new fuss about political donations is a good example.
The Garboesque Mr Abrahams, who compares his donations to his charitable giving, says he wished no public recognition for his benevolence.
That may be so, but the decision was not his to make.
The laws against anonymity for big political contributors are clear and they exist for a clear reason: the public is entitled to know who may be buying access to those who rule the land.
Mr Watt, who says he knew of Mr Abrahams's arrangement but not that it was illegal, will obviously face some close questioning; so will Jon Mendlesohn, Labour's chief fund-raiser who was told about the dodgy donations in October.
But so far Mr Brown is not involved: there is nothing to suggest that he knew of these convolutions, even though the bulk of the payments were made after he took office in June.
So far the prime minister has done half the job.
He was quick to condemn his party's breach of the law, but he diluted that decisiveness by reaching for a familiar tool, a committee of inquiry into the matter - led, for good measure, by a retired bishop and a judge.
In this case, the "lessons to be learned" are not complicated.
If the law has been broken, it is a matter for the police.
Besides, there are other things that Mr Brown needs to do, such as finding a permanent chairman for the independent Committee on Standards in Public Life, which has been without one for six months, and pressing ahead with genuine reform of political-party funding.
That would require hard-up Labour to co-operate with the Tories and perhaps give up its special financial relationship with the unions - bitter pills for a partisan like Mr Brown.
But he should face some partisan facts.
The Conservatives now have a decent lead in the polls; he has two years to win back voters; and the only way he can grind out a victory is through unimpeachable probity and solid competence.
Card sharks
Is the subprime mortgage crisis infecting America's credit-card market?
When there is blood in the water, it is only natural that dorsal fins swirl around excitedly.
Now that America's housing market is ailing, predators have their sights on the country's credit-card market.
Analysts at Goldman Sachs reckon that credit-card losses could reach $99 billion if contagion spreads from subprime mortgages to other forms of consumer credit.
Signs of strain are clearly visible.
There are rises in both the charge-off and delinquency rates, which measure the share of balances that are uncollectable or more than 30 days late respectively.
HSBC announced last month that it had taken a $1.4 billion charge in its American consumer-finance business, partly because of weakness among card borrowers.
It is too early to panic, though.
Charge-offs and delinquencies are still low.
According to Moody's, a rating agency, the third-quarter delinquency rate of 3.89% was almost a full percentage point below the historical average.
The deterioration in rates can be partly explained by technical factors.
A change in America's personal-bankruptcy laws in 2005 led to an abrupt fall in bankruptcy filings, which in turn account for a big chunk of credit-card losses; the number of filings (and thus charge-off rates) would be rising again, whether or not overall conditions for borrowers were getting worse.
The industry also reports solid payment rates, which show how much of their debt consumers pay off each month.
And confidence in credit-card asset-backed securities is pretty firm despite paralysis in other corners of structured finance.
Dennis Moroney of TowerGroup, a research firm, predicts that issuance volumes for 2007 will end up being 25% higher than last year.
Direct channels of infection between the subprime-mortgage crisis and the credit-card market certainly exist: consumers are likelier to load up on credit-card debt now that home-equity loans are drying up.
But card issuers look at cash flow rather than asset values, so falling house prices do not necessarily trigger a change in borrowers' creditworthiness.
They may even work to issuers' advantage.
The incentives for consumers to keep paying the mortgage decrease if properties are worth less than the value of the loan; card debt rises higher up the list of repayment priorities as a result.
Card issuers are also able to respond much more swiftly and flexibly to stormier conditions than mortgage lenders are, by changing interest rates or altering credit limits.
That should in theory reduce the risk of a rapid repricing of assets.
"We are not going to wake up one day and totally revalue the loans," says Gary Perlin, Capital One's chief financial officer.
If a sudden subprime-style meltdown in the credit-card market is improbable, the risks of a sustained downturn are much more real.
If lower house prices and a contraction in credit push America into recession, the industry will undoubtedly face a grimmer future.
Keep watching for those dorsal fins.
British Bankers Plead Guilty in Enron Case
Three British bankers who were set to go to trial for their roles in a fraudulent scheme with former Enron Chief Financial Officer Andrew Fastow changed their pleas to guilty Wednesday.
David Bermingham, Giles Darby and Gary Mulgrew had originally pleaded innocent to seven counts of wire fraud for allegedly colluding with Fastow in a secret financial scam in 2000 to enrich themselves at their employers' expense.
They were set to go on trial in January.
But during a court hearing before U.S. District Judge Ewing Werlein Jr., each pleaded guilty to one count of wire fraud.
The three former executives at Greenwich NatWest, a unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC, became a cause celebre in Britain throughout extradition proceedings that lasted two years.
In the United States, their case is a loose end of an investigation launched after Enron's 2001 collapse.
Charges initially filed against them in 2002 alerted Fastow that he was a target of the government's investigation into Enron's downfall.
The indictment against the bankers -- dubbed the "NatWest Three" -- alleges they came to Houston in 2000 to concoct a fraudulent scheme with Fastow and his former top aide, Michael Kopper.
Greenwich NatWest had invested in a subsidiary of an Enron partnership controlled by Fastow, who was the architect of a myriad of fraudulent Enron schemes that helped fuel its spiral into bankruptcy proceedings.
In early 2002, the bank had valued its interest in the subsidiary at zero, but the three British men knew it actually had significant value.
A company under Kopper's control purchased the bank's interest in the subsidiary for $1 million.
The bankers paid Kopper $250,000 for an interest in this company.
According to the indictment, Fastow falsely represented to Enron that the energy company would pay $20 million to Greenwich NatWest for its shares of the subsidiary.
But the $20 million actually went to the British bankers, Fastow and others.
The bankers got $7.3 million while Fastow, Kopper and others skimmed about $12.3 million, according to the indictment.
In January 2004, Fastow pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy for his role in Enron's collapse.
The British trio was arrested three months later.
Fastow is serving a six-year sentence in a federal prison in Louisiana.
Kopper is serving a three-year, one-month sentence at a facility in Texarkana.
Each of the three British men have been free on $1 million bonds that required them to live in the United States pending trial.
Enron, once the nation's seventh-largest company, crumbled into bankruptcy in December 2001 after years of accounting tricks could no longer hide billions in debt or make failing ventures appear profitable.
The collapse wiped out thousands of jobs, more than $60 billion in market value and more than $2 billion in pension plans.
Enron founder Kenneth Lay and former chief executive Jeffrey Skilling were convicted last year for their roles in the company's collapse.
Skilling is serving a sentence of more than 24 years.
Lay's convictions for conspiracy, fraud and other charges were wiped out after he died of heart disease last year.
Not Down and Out in Moscow
The price of a Gulfstream G550 airplane, fitted with a Rolls-Royce engine and enough fuel capacity to fly nonstop from Moscow to Los Angeles, starts at $54 million.
But that is small change to some of the Russian rich.
"It seats up to 18 passengers," said Dan Firer, a Gulfstream representative.
"But none of them ask for that many seats because it is for a private family or a company president."
Mr. Firer was manning the Gulfstream booth last Friday at the Millionaire Fair, a four-day orgy of conspicuous consumption held at a cavernous exhibition center on the outskirts of the capital.
In addition to Gulfstream, over 200 other luxury purveyors had set up display stands, hoping to interest newly moneyed Russians in everything from mahogany-paneled yachts to diamond-encrusted car grilles worthy of 50 Cent.
Mr. Firer warily eyed a bright orange Porsche at the booth next to his.
"That's a nice car, but it is nickels and dimes compared to us," he said.
"After the United States, Russia is the second-biggest market for private aircraft."
Fueled by an oil boom, the Russian capital seems as awash in cash as Dallas was in its heyday.
"We went through the same thing in the 1890s when some Americans came into giant wealth and flocked to Europe, where they were viewed as materialistic," said Marshall Goldman, a senior scholar at the Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies at Harvard University.
Like the Saudi high rollers of the 1970s and the Japanese in the 1990s, Russians are emerging as the world's most visible free spenders.
The most exclusive luxury brands are seeking their share of the klondike.
Elsewhere in Moscow this week, a conference on the luxury industry has drawn Donatella Versace, Tom Ford and Bernard Arnault, the chairman of LVMH, to exchange ideas about how to sell high-priced goods to markets like Russia.
(The conference is organized by The International Herald Tribune, which is owned by The New York Times Company.)
Russia has 53 billionaires worth a total of $282 billion, according to the Forbes list of the richest people.
In addition, the second-tier rich include 103,000 Russian millionaires who are collectively worth $670 billion, according to a study on the evolution of personal wealth in the former Soviet Union written by economists at the Center for Economic and Financial Research, a think tank here.
(The World Bank says that in 2005, 15.8 percent of Russians lived below subsistence level.)
"There are hundreds of millionaires in Moscow - that is why we are all here," said Nicole Marais, a sales and marketing representative for David Morris, the London jeweler.
She was attending the fair for the first time in conjunction with the brand's Russian distributor, the Soho Jewelry Group.
"The women are all impeccably groomed and the men are all worth a fortune."
Wandering the halls Sunday night, dressed in evening attire, two real estate agents, Evgenia Yumatova, 21, and Svetlana Turovtsova, 26, described both themselves and their clients as millionaires.
"I was looking at the cars and I'm trying to decide between the Infiniti, the Mercedes and the Porsche," said Ms. Yumatova, who reeled off the designer clothing she was wearing like a red carpet veteran dishing with Joan Rivers.
The fair seemed primarily aimed at the nouveaux riches, the type of brand-driven Russian shoppers who would be willing to sit through several hours of traffic to tour a drafty warehouse that gaudily juxtaposed Cadillac Escalades, platinum penknives, Mövenpick ice cream, custom pool tables, apartments in Dubai and Gund teddy bears.
Members of the general public could buy tickets for 30 euros ($44.57).
"Russians are interested in learning what brand is the most expensive and the best," said Mr. Gijrath, who was sitting patriotically at a booth of the Dutch porcelain manufacturer Royal Delft, in front of a wall-size re-creation of a Rembrandt painting made of hand-painted blue tile.
"Of course, Russians are more interested in bling-bling."
Indeed, vendors here said that Russians with old money (10 to 15 years is old, by Russian standards) have already moved on from flashy logos to the kind of understated limited-edition brands that would not market themselves at a trade show.
Still, several thousand people, whether cash millionaires, emissaries of millionaires or just tourists, thronged the halls every day.
And some of them were buying.
On the first night of the show last Thursday, Roman Ershov, the general manager of King Koil beds here, said he had sold two $70,000 mattress sets made of silk, cashmere and cotton, interwoven with gold threads.
Also on the first night, Mikhail Lyubiumov, the sales manager for A1 Moto, a company that outfits high-end cars with high-end alarm systems, said that his company had sold the bright orange Porsche, for $170,000, to a Russian millionaire.
By Sunday afternoon, Andrei Karapetian, the president of L.A. Connection, a company that customizes luxury cars, said he had sold three car grilles, resembling interlinked chain bracelets, for Rolls-Royce Phantoms, at $55,000 each.
He showed a reporter a car wheel, designed for a Russian casino owner, with spokes that he had encrusted with colored Swarovski crystals so that it looked like a roulette wheel.
The cost: $22,000 for a set of four.
"The Russian millionaire who wants ostrich leather wheels or a picture of his wife's face made out of cubic zirconium, is not necessarily going to drive on those wheels," Mr. Karapetian said.
"He is going to keep it in his 30- or 40-car garage."
Even if many of his Russian clients are rich, Mr. Karapetian said the phrase "Russian millionaire" did not convey much exclusivity at the moment, given the surge in real estate prices here.
"If you bought an apartment in Moscow three or four years ago, you are probably already a millionaire, at least on paper if not in cash," he said.
"There are more of them than you think."
Those who were not millionaires could at least pretend to be rich at the stand run by Alliance Continental, a Russian asset management firm.
The company had erected four red British-style telephone booths, stuffed with piles of counterfeit million-dollar greenbacks.
Azad Karryev, the company's marketing manager, said his team had printed 500,000 fake bills for the Millionaire Fair.
Passers-by stopped to toss piles of money around, ask their friends to snap cellphone images of them reclining amid ersatz wealth, or just to pocket a couple of million.
"You see, in Moscow, everyone can feel himself a millionaire," Mr. Karryev said.
Botched Surgery Suspected in a Death in New Jersey
It was the day before Thanksgiving when Ronald Livingston looked through the big plate-glass window of the Just a Little Healthier restaurant here and watched as an ambulance pulled up to the white Cape Cod two doors down on West Scott Avenue.
Soon, there was a police patrol car.
And then there was another.
"Then I saw the medical examiner's van pull up," Mr. Livingston, a supervisor at the restaurant, said on Wednesday.
"That's when I knew somebody was gone."
The authorities would learn that the dead woman was Olga Arroyo, 41, an executive assistant to the director of the Newark Police Department.
Now investigators are trying to determine whether she died because of a procedure performed by an unlicensed cosmetic surgeon, whom the police did not identify, working in the house at 212 West Scott Avenue.
The authorities have not yet determined what caused Ms. Arroyo's death, and are hopeful that toxicology tests, the results of which might not be available for weeks, will help solve a mysterious death that has sent a spasm of grief through the top ranks of the Newark police.
Ms. Arroyo had been an assistant to the police director, Garry F. McCarthy, since September 2006, and her voice was familiar to many in the department.
"She was loyal, hard-working and tenacious," Mr. McCarthy said of Ms. Arroyo in a telephone interview on Wednesday.
"She was my pit bull.
She would protect me."
Mr. McCarthy said that Ms. Arroyo was the wife of Jimmy Arroyo, a former Newark police officer who works for the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission, and that she leaves two sons, 14 and 11, and a stepdaughter.
Eileen Walsh, a spokeswoman for the Union County prosecutor, Theodore J. Romankow, said that detectives were trying to determine whether Ms. Arroyo died as the result of an unlicensed surgical procedure.
"That's one of the possibilities," Ms. Walsh said.
"It's an ongoing investigation."
The authorities said they arrived at the house about 3 p.m. on Nov.
21 and found Ms. Arroyo on a sofa.
She was pronounced dead at the scene.
More than a week has gone by, and the authorities have said little about their investigation or about the owner of the house, who is listed as Flor Margarita Castro.
Ms. Walsh would not say whether Ms. Castro had been interviewed by the authorities.
Investigators are trying to determine whether part of the house was used as a medical office.
On Wednesday, no one answered the door at Ms. Castro's home, where a withered rosebush stood in the narrow front yard and a Dalmatian barked in the back.
A blue drum labeled "Ethyl Vanillin" - used as a substitute for vanilla in foods and perfumes - sat in a carport, next to a door that led to the basement.
Two mountain bikes hung from hooks off to one side.
Mr. McCarthy said that when he first arrived in Newark after spending 25 years with the New York Police Department, Ms. Arroyo was invaluable in helping him navigate his new city's insular and rough-hewn political culture.
"She would say, 'You've got to watch out for this one or that one,'" he said.
"She was always here when I got here, and she was always here when I left.
It was embarrassing."
Hopes that Fed will cut rates lead to world stock market surge
Shares leapt on both sides of the Atlantic yesterday after market hopes that the Federal Reserve will try to calm credit conditions with further interest rate cuts were boosted by soothing comments from the US central bank's vice-chairman.
Stock markets surged in London, New York and across Europe after Donald Kohn, No 2 to Ben Bernanke, the Fed's Chairman, said that policymakers must be "flexible and pragmatic" in responding to continued stress in financial markets.
In a clear effort to reassure fretful markets amid signs of resurgent credit strains, Mr Kohn said that recent turbulence had "partly reversed some of the improvement in market functioning over the late part of September and in October".
Should the elevated turbulence persist, it would increase the possibility of further tightening in financial conditions for households and businesses, he said.
The comments were taken by investors as a signal that the Fed stands ready to step in with fresh injections of capital into US markets, and possible further interest rate cuts, to stabilise credit conditions.
The remarks also helped to calm Wall Street amid more bad news on the US economy, as sales of US homes hit a record low in October.
The fallout from financial turmoil was emphasised by an announcement from Bear Stearns, the investment bank, that it will cut 650 jobs, or 4 per cent of its global workforce, in a round of cost-cutting to offset heavy losses from its losing bets on the US sub-prime home loans sector.
Only 20 of those posts are expected to go in London, where the bank employs 1,500 people.
In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average jumped by 331 points, or 2.55 per cent, to close at 13,289.40, while the broader-based S&P 500 index rose by 2.65 per cent.
In London, the FTSE 100 index rose 165.5 points, or 2.7 per cent, to close at 6,306.2, adding more than £39 billion to the value of Britain's blue-chip companies.
Germany's Dax index rose 2.6 per cent, and France's CAC40 was up 2.3 per cent.
Earlier, the reemergence of credit stress in the markets was high-lighted after strong demand in an auction of three-month funds by the European Central Bank saw those loaned to Europe's commercial banks at a hefty 4.7 per cent, the highest rate since April 2001.
Pressure on the Bank of England to follow the Fed and ECB and inject extra funds into money markets in London mounted as credit strains saw three-month "Libor" rates for lending between UK banks pushed to their highest since late September, at 6.59 per cent, after a steady climb since November 12.
England faced with judgment call over the claims of Owais Shah and Ravi Bopara
Here are two dilemmas, each almost as difficult as the other.
Who should bat at No 6 for England in Kandy this weekend, Owais Shah or Ravi Bopara?
And, no less relevant in a wider context than the first Test against Sri Lanka, who should make the decision?
The second question is relevant because David Graveney, the chairman of selectors who is on borrowed time under that particular title at least, is here to help Peter Moores, the head coach, and Michael Vaughan, the captain, to decide and because the desk of Hugh Morris, the England managing director, is starting to fill up with applications to become national selector, if not a part-time one.
Whoever does not get the sixth batting place will be unlucky, but life is often unfair and sport certainly is.
It is never easy to pin down what makes one man reach the top of his profession while another never gets beyond a lower level, sometimes for lack of luck rather than ability.
It is not only in cricket that selection is difficult, requiring judgment that always has to be subjective in the end.
Is it the right time for Bopara to move up?
Is it fair on Shah if he does?
The same might well be asked in another field of whether, say, John Edwards or "Tubby" Banerjee, both bright young executives with good degrees who know the business well, should be promoted to the board: there is only room for one of them.
Who is to say what the right level is for a cricketer, unless he is given the chance to sink or swim at the next one?
Figures, naturally, have a large bearing on decisions, but so do opportunities.
Within a team, a cricketer has to catch the captain's eye at the right time if he is to take a wicket and a batsman has to get regular chances up the order if he is to make an impact as a one-day cricketer.
Catching the eyes of the selectors is more complicated.
There were many who did better last season, for example, than James Anderson, who looks certain to play in the first Test even if Stephen Harmison declares himself fit and bowls like the wind in the nets.
Anderson took 32 first-class wickets at 33 runs each to earn a place on this tour.
Chris Tremlett took only 29 at the same modest average, but both have had their moments at the highest level and hope for more of them.
Whether Shah or Bopara plays at the Asgiriya Stadium can be only a matter of opinion.
The choice might break or make either man's career, or it might make little difference.
Four years ago in Sri Lanka, Gareth Batty played in every Test and did well in the first, with five wickets and 40 useful runs, but it was Paul Collingwood, struggling to establish himself at the same time, who came through to become a substantial Test cricketer and, despite scoring a double hundred against Australia in Australia, may still be underestimated.
The probability is that Graveney, Vaughan and Moores, after one more discussion in the wake of today's net session at the Asgiriya Stadium, will follow their conservative instincts and plump for Shah's greater experience over Bopara's youthful exuberance.
There are arguments for both.
In Shah's favour are his sparkling and valuable debut Test innings of 88 in Bombay, 32 first-class hundreds to only six by Bopara, who, at 22, is seven years younger, and an excellent record against spin bowling.
But Shah made only ten runs in his two innings in May against West Indies in the Test at Lord's, his home venue as a Middlesex player, and that, plus the immediate rejection by the selectors when Vaughan was fit to reclaim his place for the next match, seems to have taken from his batting some of the élan that was evident in Bombay.
By contrast, the Essex all-rounder has joie de vivre in spades.
He is fazed by nothing on a cricket field and his attitude off it was summed up when he recently overturned a four-wheel-drive vehicle at an exhibition day for England's car sponsor, Volkswagen.
He suffered minor injuries and, presumably, shock, but the first thing that he did was to pull out his Vodafone (also sponsored, of course) and phone Alastair Cook, his teammate, who was watching from a distance, to say, with excitement: "Did you see that?"
Bopara is much the better fielder, he is bowling his skiddy medium pace to some effect here on pitches that seem to suit him and is batting with confidence and skill.
Choosing the right man is one thing, choosing the right moment another.
Perhaps that is the real art of selection.
My inclination would be to give Bopara his chance now, which is not to say that Shah might not excel if, as the Ceylon tea leaves suggest, it is he who plays here this weekend.
Buses bring the refugees back to work - and to fight al-Qaeda
The first bus loads of Iraqi refugees from Syria started arriving in Baghdad yesterday, spewing out exiles who had run out of cash or visa extensions and others who hoped that the city was returning to normality.
Some had even come back to fight the militants who drove them from their homes.
At the Mansour bus station, even before the arrival from Damascus of 800 people in an official government convoy of a dozen buses, the terminal was busy with refugees from Syria and Jordan who had returned in private transport.
"I decided to go to Syria after they killed many doctors in Baghdad," Sabah al-Qubaisi, a Sunni doctor, said.
"I returned today because of what I saw on TV and what I keep reading in the newspapers, about what happened to Baghdad and how it was safe now.
They say the Mahdi army stopped killing people," he said, referring to the Shia militia of militant cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, who has ordered his forces to stand down for the moment.
Qassim al Atwani, a 38-year-old Shia teacher from the predominantly Sunni area of Amariyah, returned with his two children because he was unable to renew his Syrian visa and because the regime prevented Iraqis from working.
His Shia neighbours in Amariyah telephoned to tell him that a local US-backed militia force had helped to drive al-Qaeda out from their bastion in the west of the capital, and urged him to return.
One of the new arrivals from Jordan was the head of a Sunni and Shia tribe who had been driven from his home in Sleikh in northern Baghdad by a grenade attack after he urged his fellow citizens to rise up to fight al-Qaeda.
He had come back to fight.
"Two days ago, some of my friends called me and told me they started an anti-al-Qaeda militia in Sleikh and they need me and my boys' support.
That's way I returned today," Sabaah Alu Obeidi, 62, said.
Many spoke of being lured by the increased calm in the capital since the US troop surge and growth of local "concerned citizens groups", armed and working with the US military to defend their neighbourhoods.
But more spoke of being forced home by visa woes and dwindling capital in Damascus, where more than 1.3 million Iraqis had fled in recent years.
Salaam al-Samarrai, a 51-year-old father of three, gave voice to common suspicion among the exiles that Nouri al-Maliki, the Shia prime minister, had asked the Syrian Government to impose visa restriction on the refugees to force people to return.
More than two and half million people are believed to have fled the country's sectarian death squads.
"We were OK until al-Maliki visited Syria and pushed the Government to stop giving the Iraqis visas, to force them to go back to Iraq," the Sunni pensioner said.
"I can't trust a government that supports the criminals who burnt down my house after I left."
Part of the reason for the drop in violence is that Sunnis have been purged from Shia areas and vice versa, creating many places where tensions are lower.
There are fears that a sudden influx of refugees will stir up sectarian tensions again and lead to fighting.
Accident victim named by police
A 63-year-old woman pedestrian who died in hospital after being hit by a vehicle in Essex has been named.
Carole Paulson, of Chelmsford Road in Brentwood, was involved in the accident on Friday afternoon on Shenfield Road in the town.
She was taken to Queen's Hospital, Romford, but later died.
After the accident a 51-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of careless driving.
He has since been released on police bail.
Stepfather abuse "led to suicide"
Years of abuse by her stepfather led a woman to kill herself, a court has been told.
Michael Trerise, 57, of Stithians, Cornwall, was jailed for six years after he admitted eight counts of indecent assault.
Truro Crown Court heard he regularly tied up his step-daughter Stephanie Randle, when she was aged between five and seven.
Trerise wrote in a confession note: "I feel responsible for her death."
The court heard that Ms Randle killed herself at her home in Mutley, Plymouth, on 1 April 2007, aged 34.
When she was a child living in Coventry, Trerise had tied her up and blindfolded her before performing sexual acts, while her mother was out working at a pub.
Trerise and his wife divorced in the 1980s, and he returned to live in Cornwall.
His step-daughter went to Plymouth.
But the court heard that Ms Randle, who spent much of her time volunteering for the National Trust, was haunted by the abuse which had been inflicted on her twice-weekly.
By 2006, prosecutor Ramsey Quaife told the court, friends said Ms Randle, who had been a keen surfer and cyclist, was "emotionally dead", and had "given up on life".
In April 2007 her real father, Terrance Randle, found her dead at her flat in Plymouth.
She is thought to have killed herself through suffocation using a plastic bag.
Mr Randle confronted his daughter's step-father, who wrote a confession letter which ended: "I used to tie her up and blindfold her.
"I didn't sexually assault her.
I feel responsible for her death."
Judge Christopher Elwen told Trerise: "You are an extremely strange fetishist, and for your victim it must have been terrifying, especially when she was only seven.
"This unpleasant saga ends with the victim taking her own life.
Even more stark, is the fact that had she not done so, it's very doubtful that matters would have ended up in court."
He added: "I note the effect Stephanie's father and mother describe your crime having on their daughter over the years.
"She was plainly otherwise likely to have been a promising, successful and happy young woman."
Lost data official to be charged
The Cabinet Office official who left top-secret documents on a train in June is to be charged under the Official Secrets Act, the BBC has learned.
The man was on secondment from the Ministry of Defence when he left two highly classified documents on a train to Waterloo.
The documents were passed to the BBC before being handed over to the police.
It is the least sensitive charge under the act and there is no suggestion of criminal intent.
BBC defence correspondent Frank Gardner said the move would have come as a surprise to many in Whitehall.
"They will have thought this was being dealt with internally at the MoD and Cabinet Office," he said.
The employee, who cannot be named, is being charged under section 8.1 of the act, the clause which deals with safeguarding information.
The Crown Prosecution Service recommended the official should be charged by the Metropolitan Police due to the highly sensitive nature of his work on the Joint Intelligence Committee.
The documents he misplaced contained classified assessments about al-Qaeda and the capabilities of Iraq's security forces.
He was informed of the decision on Monday morning and was moved from his home to an undisclosed location.
Building societies face B&B bill
Britain's building societies could face a bill of more than £80m after the rescue of the Bradford & Bingley bank.
The Government provided £14bn to protect the deposits of Bradford & Bingley's 2.6 million savers.
The interest on that loan will be paid by all firms that take savers' money, including the 59 building societies.
The director general of the Building Societies Association (BSA) Adrian Coles said it was "galling" that societies and their members had to pay.
The £14bn loan will eventually be repaid as Bradford & Bingley's mortgages are redeemed.
But the interest which will accrue in the meantime will be charged each year to the 700 financial companies which take deposits.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme confirmed to the BBC that the 59 building societies would be included in that number.
It is galling that those institutions that behaved prudently ... are now being called upon to pay some of the bills of those institutions that were far less prudent
Adrian Coles, BSA
It said each firm had to pay in proportion to the deposits it held, and that the societies between them had to pay about 18% of the cost.
The Treasury estimates that the interest on the loan will amount to £450m in 2009.
That means the societies will have to find £81m to pay the first year's interest.
Adrian Coles, director general of the building societies' trade association, told the BBC he believes that is unfair.
"It is galling that those institutions that behaved prudently in the housing market upswing are now being called upon to pay some of the bills of those institutions that were far less prudent."
According to the BSA, no society has failed since its records began in 1945.
"We will need to examine all the aspects of this over the next few weeks to see what options there are to protect building societies and their members from what could be a significant bill," added Mr Cole.
The interest due in 2009 cover seven months from the end of September this year to the end of March.
In 2010 a full year's interest will be due and that could be almost twice as much.
Since building societies are mutual organisations with no shareholders, their members will end up paying the bill either through higher charges or lower interest rates on saving accounts.
Turkey's widening diplomatic horizons
Long before Turkey sought to join the European Union, the European powers were eager to penetrate deep into Turkey's hinterland.
On the eastern side of the Bosphorus, maybe just 20 steps into Asia, stands one of the finest relics of this failed imperial ambition.
Hydarpasha railway station was designed by two German architects Otto Ritter and Helmut Conu in the neo-renaissance style.
That at least is what the guidebooks tell you.
The building sits astride the end of the platforms with a tower at each of its front corners looking for all the world like some provincial German town hall.
The stone is dirty.
The whole edifice slightly decaying.
But once inside the vaulted ticket office, there is no doubting the grandeur of the enterprise of which this was the westernmost gateway.
The station was opened in August 1908 by a German consortium, the Anatolia-Baghdad Corporation.
Germany, a latecomer to the imperial game, intended to realise its ambitions to dominate the Middle East by means of this railway running to Damascus, Baghdad, and beyond into what today is Saudi Arabia.
But Germany's imperial ambitions foundered during the World War I.
Its railway tracks were attacked by Lawrence of Arabia and his Arab irregulars.
The relative isolation from its surrounding region, engendered by the frozen boundaries of the Cold War, has gone
British and dominion forces advanced out of Egypt and pushed the Turks and their German allies out of Palestine and Syria.
And there was bad news for Hyderpasha station too.
In 1917 an ammunition train blew up destroying its elaborate roof.
Turkish sources say it was sabotage.
Since then it has slowly mouldered away, largely bypassed by history.
But today, this railway gateway to Anatolia and all points east, serves - symbolically at least - to highlight Turkey's widening diplomatic horizons.
The governing Justice and Development party - the AKP - has crafted a whole new foreign policy for the country.
The relative isolation from its surrounding region, engendered by the frozen boundaries of the Cold War, has gone.
Now there is a new policy of engagement.
Remarkably the Turkish government has good relations with Israel and Syria, with the Palestinian factions of Hamas and Fatah, with Iraq and Iran and of course with the European Union and the United States.
To gauge the parameters of this new foreign policy, I boarded the night sleeper to the Turkish capital Ankara, to visit one of the AKP's leading foreign policy experts, Turkish MP Suat Kiniklioglu.
The next morning - some ten and a half hours later - after a jolting ride along tracks that produced the old world cadences of the famous documentary The Night Mail, I arrived in the Turkish capital - proposed as a new city for a new secular state intent on turning its back on the Ottoman past.
But the AKP with its well-known Islamist roots represents a paradigm shift in the Turkish consensus.
It has prompted some suspicion in the West, most notably in Washington.
A taxi took me to the AKP's headquarters, an ultra-modern stone and steel structure - purpose-built - in a developing suburb, surrounded by half-constructed shopping centres and power-patisseries where middle managers in business suits - both men and women - met to make early morning deals.
Suat Kiniklioglu could have been a centre-right politician from almost any other political party in Europe.
Suit, tie, I am sure he was even packing a Blackberry.
"The aim of the party's foreign policy is now to re-integrate Turkey into its immediate neighbourhood.
The Cold War was an anomaly," he told me.
Turkey had been cut off from its hinterland.
Today it had to look eastwards and westwards at the same time.
It was not a case of one or the other.
It had to do both.
"But surely at some point," I asked, "Turkey might be forced to choose?"
"Turkey," he said, "did not want to have to face that choice."
He then stressed a point that almost everyone I have spoken to here has recited almost by rote: Turkey's ties not just to the Middle East, but to the Caucasus, and around the Black Sea, are as much to the benefit of Europe and the United States as they are to Turkey.
With Turkey on board, the message seems to be, Europe as a whole can metaphorically ride those rail lines eastwards towards Asia and the Middle East.
Back at Hydarpasha station, after another largely sleepless night, I thought of those two German gentlemen Herr Ritter and Herr Conu who had watched this edifice being built 100 years ago.
How surprised they would have been to find that Europe's Middle Eastern ambitions may now, to a large part, be in Turkey's hands.
And as I waited at the terminal for the ferry to take me back across the Bosphorus, I recalled that in those days Turkey had always been called "the sick man of Europe."
Then at least there did not seem to be much doubt as to which continent should lay claim to this fascinating country.
Milk to go up five pence a litre
People in Jersey are facing having to pay more for their milk.
Jersey Dairy has announced that it will increase the wholesale price of its milk by an extra five pence a litre from Monday.
It is the second price increase this year, following a two pence rise in February, and comes after research carried out by a consultancy company.
Retailers are to decide for themselves if they want pass on the price increases to their customers.
Before the February increase, the wholesale price of Jersey milk last changed in 2002.
Bangladesh ex-PM is denied bail
A Bangladesh court has rejected a bail plea of former PM Sheikh Hasina, meaning that she could be arrested when she returns to the country.
Her lawyers said the court refused to grant her bail over charges of extorting 50 million taka ($729,700) from a businessman when she was PM.
The case is one of several corruption charges pending against her.
Sheikh Hasina's long-time political rival, Khaleda Zia, was released on bail earlier this month.
Sheikh Hasina is due to return to Bangladesh over the next few weeks but her party, the Awami League, has demanded that the country's military-backed caretaker government should first give her full freedom.
Correspondents say that while she was given parole to go abroad for medical treatment, it is not clear under the terms of her release whether she will be able to remain at liberty when she returns to Bangladesh.
Her lawyers say that she will now appeal in the Supreme Court against the High Court order.
"The High Court rejected Sheikh Hasina's bail petition saying that she doesn't have to get bail as she's already undergoing treatment abroad on parole," her barrister Rafique-ul Huq said.
"We'll file an appeal against the High Court order."
Her lawyers argued that she needed bail to come back to the country from abroad to prepare for elections in December.
Sheikh Hasina is expected to return home after 17 October, a senior Awami League party leader said on Sunday.
She was detained last year after the army-backed interim government assumed power, but was released from prison in June, to go abroad for medical treatment.
Both Sheikh Hasina and Khaleda Zia deny all charges against them.
Fears for Afghan anti-polio drive
Almost 200,000 children in Afghanistan missed out on a recent polio immunisation drive because of violence linked to the Taleban, the UN says.
The UN carried out a vaccination programme in six provinces last week.
But it says it could not reach children in parts of Helmand and Kandahar in the south for security reasons.
A UN spokesman said this was despite pledges from the Taleban that they would not attack or obstruct thousands of staff carrying out the vaccinations.
BSkyB loses ITV legal challenge
BSkyB has lost its legal challenge to the Competition Commission's decision forcing the firm to reduce its stake in rival broadcaster ITV.
BSkyB has been told by the Competition Appeal Tribunal to cut its holding in ITV from 17.9% to below 7.5%.
Previously, the commission said that BSkyB's stake thwarted competition and allowed it unfair influence over ITV.
BSkyB bought the stake in 2006 in a deal which effectively blocked NTL, now renamed Virgin Media, from buying ITV.
In April 2007, the Office of Fair Trading reported that BSkyB's acquisition of its stake in ITV shed doubt on the independence of ITV, prompting the Competition Commission to launch a probe.
Virgin boss Sir Richard Branson, consumer groups and the regulator Ofcom all opposed the purchase.
BSkyB argued that forcing it to reduce its ITV stake was unreasonable and a disproportionate remedy - particularly as BSkyB had said it would surrender its voting rights.
New probe into US attorney affair
The US attorney general has appointed a special prosecutor to look into the firing of nine US attorneys in 2006.
The move came as a report into the affair by the inspector general of the justice department criticised the actions of administration officials.
The report was critical of White House officials, lawmakers and the former Attorney General Alberto Gonzales.
The investigation was prompted by fears that the attorneys had been removed for political reasons.
Special Prosecutor Nora Dannehy will now investigate whether officials questioned during the probe lied to investigators in an attempt to obstruct justice.
"Serious allegations involving potential criminal conduct have not been fully investigated or resolved," Inspector General Glenn Fine said in his report.
The appointment of a special prosecutor with the power to force witnesses to testify was one of his key recommendations.
The row began when nine US attorneys were removed from their positions by the US Department of Justice in December 2006.
At the time, the department said that the attorneys had been fired for poor performance.
But it later emerged that the fired attorneys had not been rated any more poorly than many of their colleagues, leading many observers to conclude that the sackings had been politically-motivated.
Some of the attorneys had been involved in the prosecution of high-profile Republican members of Congress, while others had refused to investigate allegations of voter fraud against Democrats.
US attorneys investigate and prosecute court cases for the government.
They can be dismissed at any time, but may not be removed for political reasons.
The then head of the justice department, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, came under fire for the sackings, and eventually resigned his position.
A number of other justice department officials also resigned.
The inspector general's report was highly critical of Mr Gonzales's role in the affair, saying he bore "primary responsibility" for the sackings, that he "abdicated" his leadership role and was "remarkably unengaged" in the process.
Other officials, including former senior Bush aide Karl Rove, were criticised for failing to co-operate with the investigation.
Meat Loaf's epic to be honoured
Rock star Meat Loaf is to be honoured at the Q Awards for his epic anthem Bat Out Of Hell.
The singer, who will collect his special golden award at next week's ceremony in London, said he was "honoured" to gain recognition.
The song, which lasts nine minutes and fifty seconds, was the title track to Meat Loaf's hit 1977 album.
Coldplay are leading the nominations for this year's awards, making the shortlists of four categories.
Paul Rees, Q magazine's editor-in-chief, said: "There are some songs that transcend such things as time and genre, and Bat Out Of Hell is assuredly one of them."
The song, penned by Jim Steinman, required a huge vocal which was delivered by Meat Loaf.
It opened with an instrumental section which lasted almost two minutes.
The song was released as a single in the UK in 1979 and peaked at number 15.
But Meat Loaf's Bat Out Of Hell album spent around nine years in the chart and went on to sell more than 40 million copies worldwide.
Meat Loaf - real name Marvin Lee Aday - has suffered health problems in recent years, including surgery for an irregular heartbeat in 2003 after collapsing on stage.
In 2007, acute laryngitis forced him to cancel concerts.
It later emerged that he had a cyst on his vocal chord.
Obscure City Street, Often Forgotten and Perhaps Soon for Sale
New York City has thousands of avenues, boulevards, streets and other byways, some famous, others merely utilitarian.
But even many veteran taxi drivers and longtime local residents find it difficult to give the location of Extra Place, mostly because they have never heard of it.
The tiny street is in the East Village and runs north from First Street - without making it to Second Street - between the Bowery and Second Avenue.
About 30 feet wide and 120 feet long, it resembles a dusty alleyway more than an active thoroughfare.
There are no street signs.
It is virtually impossible to see on a standard atlas.
The street does, however, have admirers.
For instance, there is Avalon Bay, the developer of recently constructed luxury buildings on First Street.
It wants to repave Extra Place and create a cleaner passageway to the shops and boutiques that are expected to open in the new buildings.
Other admirers include longtime neighbors who said they were charmed by the truncated lane simply because it was one of the last remnants of the block's pregentrified past.
But the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, which has control of the street, has no interest in holding on to it.
At a meeting of the neighborhood community board's land use committee this month, representatives of the city agency and Avalon Bay outlined a proposal for the developer to buy the street.
But the committee prefers that the street remain in the city's hands, and it asked for a new plan to be submitted next month, said Susan Stetzer, the district manager of Community Board 3.
"There's very little city-owned space left, and we would like the city to continue to own Extra Place," she said.
"There could be proposals to fix it up and manage it, which could be done by Avalon, but we also want to guarantee public access."
Avalon Bay announced several months ago that it wanted to repave the little street and install seats, including some to be used by a cafe to which the developer expects to lease space.
The idea that Avalon Bay might buy the street was first made public at this month's meeting.
Michele de Milly, a spokeswoman for Avalon Bay, said that though the company wanted to use the street, it did not necessarily want to own it.
"Avalon Bay's principal concern is refurbishing this derelict alleyway and turning it into a public amenity," she said, adding that the city had suggested the sale.
Seth Donlin, a spokesman for Housing Preservation, said it was indeed the city's desire to sell the street and noted that the agency's mission was to develop property rather than manage it.
Compared with its more colorful neighbor, the Bowery, Extra Place has left a light historical footprint.
Some believe it got its name in 1802, when a large farm owned by Philip Minthorne was split up among several of his children and the narrow strip of land was unclaimed.
The back door of CBGB, the punk rock monument that closed in 2006, opened onto Extra Place, and the street is perhaps best known as the setting for the cover photograph of the Ramones' album "Rocket to Russia."
"The ground was magnificent," said Danny Fields, the manager of the Ramones, who took the photograph in November 1976.
"It was filled with junk, shreds of clothes and pieces of barrels, posters, leaves, ropes."
Some residents, including bloggers who write about the gentrification of the East Village, have opposed the idea of selling Extra Place, arguing that the piece of public property, modest as it is, should remain public.
Others have lauded Extra Place as a rarity - a virtually unchanged sliver of the city that ought to be left alone.
Jeremiah Moss, who runs a blog called Jeremiah's Vanishing New York (subtitled, "The Book of Lamentations: A Bitterly Nostalgic Look at a City in the Process of Going Extinct"), posted part of a Talk of the Town story about Extra Place that appeared in The New Yorker in 1952.
The author, Brendan Gill, wrote: "Extra Place is a narrow little dead-end street, dark even by day and marked off by rusty iron warehouse doors and shuttered windows, with week-old newspapers blowing along the gutters."
With a few exceptions, the street looked much the same on a recent evening.
A rat skittered across the back of the street near a door that used to lead into CBGB, which is now the site of an upscale clothing store.
Graffiti was on walls and an empty 22-ounce beer bottle lay near a fresh batch of discarded newspapers.
A few passersby said that they rarely thought about Extra Place but suggested that it could use some sprucing up.
Mr. Fields, for his part, said he thought that some people were underestimating the appeal of the street in its current state.
"The best years of my life," he said, "were in places that were dark, damp and disgusting."
The Bilingual Debate: English Immersion
In this installment of Education Watch, Bruce Fuller and Lance T. Izumi discuss the candidates' positions on bilingual education.
Lance T. Izumi, a senior fellow in California studies and the senior director of education studies at the Pacific Research Institute for Public Policy, is the co-author of the book "Not as Good as You Think: Why the Middle Class Needs School Choice."
Making effective appeals to Hispanic voters is a tricky business.
Barack Obama's education proposals are a case in point.
Mr. Obama's campaign notes that, "African-American and Latino students are significantly less likely to graduate than white students," which is true.
To combat such achievement gaps, Mr. Obama's education plan specifically advocates, among other things, "transitional bilingual education" for English-learners.
Yet, the question for Mr. Obama is whether his commitment to bilingual education, which emphasizes classroom instruction in languages other than English, overrides his interest in closing achievement gaps.
Take, for example, Sixth Street Prep, a charter elementary school in eastern Los Angeles County.
The school's students are overwhelmingly Hispanic and low income.
More than a third of the students, many of whom are recent arrivals, are learning English.
Yet, among fourth graders, an astounding 100 percent of the students tested at the proficient level on the 2008 state math exam.
A nearly equally amazing 93 percent of fourth graders tested proficient on the state English-language-arts exam.
This incredible success was achieved using a different ingredient than the one favored by Mr. Obama.
Sixth Street emphasizes review and practice, constant assessment of skills and a no-excuses attitude.
Furthermore, and here's where Mr. Obama should take note, according to Linda Mikels, Sixth Street's principal, the school's instructional approach for English learners is "full immersion."
English immersion emphasizes the near-exclusive use of English in content instruction.
Ms. Mikels, who opposes bilingual education, told me, "we've had tremendous success with having a student who is brand new from Mexico and you would walk into a classroom 12 months later and you wouldn't be able to pick out which one he was."
"It's working," she observed, "it's working for us."
Would Mr. Obama hold up a school like Sixth Street Prep as one model for replication by other schools with large Hispanic and English-learner populations?
The school's achievement results should make the answer to that question a no-brainer, but the education politics within his own party (the National Education Associations has been a long-time supporter of bilingual education) and his own consistent support for bilingual education obscure predicting Mr. Obama's response.
While he agrees that immigrants should learn English, Mr. Obama recently trivialized the issue when he said that people should stop worrying about "English-only" legislation.
Instead, he said, "you need to make sure your child can speak Spanish."
If Mr. Obama truly wishes to close achievement gaps, he should carefully consider education models that work rather than scorn or trivialize them.
Oil Falls Sharply on Renewed Economic Fears
Oil prices dropped sharply on Monday because of concerns that even the American bailout plan for the financial markets may fail to revive the economy.
Crude oil futures fell as much as 7 percent to $99.80 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange in morning trading.
Prices have lost more than $20 a barrel since last Monday.
In the last two weeks, commodity markets have been shaken by the financial turmoil on Wall Street, and a pair of powerful hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico.
After reaching a high of $145.29 a barrel in July, prices had fallen to nearly $90 a barrel earlier this month, before once again jumping back up on the back of tremendous uncertainty in the financial markets.
Anxiety gripped investors once again on Monday even after Congressional leaders said they had reached an agreement over the weekend about the bailout plan, the largest in history.
The news was overshadowed by fresh concerns that the financial crisis was far from over.
In the latest episode of the unfolding meltdown, Citigroup will buy the banking operations of the Wachovia Corporation, the government said Monday.
Meanwhile, the Belgian, Dutch and Luxembourg governments partially nationalized the European financial conglomerate Fortis.
Analysts at Barclays Capital said the frantic weekend negotiations that led to the bailout agreement "appear to have failed to revive market sentiment."
As the economic situation deteriorates, the demand for commodities, including oil, is expected to slow down.
"The outlook for global equity, interest rate and exchange rate markets has become increasingly uncertain," analysts at Deutsche Bank wrote in a note to investors.
"We believe commodities will be unable to escape the contagion.
From a commodity perspective our most pressing concern is to what extent the US virus spreads globally and specifically to China."
The bank's analysts pared down their expectations for next year as oil consumption drops because of slowing economic growth, reducing their oil and gas price forecasts by about 20 percent for 2009.
Second-Quarter Spree Sets Team Record
After spending more time in a Jets uniform the last eight-plus seasons than anyone, defensive end Shaun Ellis thought he had seen it all.
Then he watched the second quarter unfold Sunday, when the Jets transformed a scoreless game into a blowout.
"Never seen anything quite like that," Ellis said.
The second quarter began after the Jets and the Arizona Cardinals had matched the gloomy clouds hanging overhead with sloppy play.
Then quarterback Brett Favre found Laveranues Coles for a 12-yard touchdown strike, providing the perfect harbinger for an afternoon when their evolving connection took a giant leap forward.
Favre found Coles for two more touchdowns in the quarter, including one when a cornerback fell down and another with 10 seconds left in the half.
"I didn't go out of my way," Favre said of all the passes that went to Coles.
"He's a hell of a player.
Our communication has been great, regardless of what people may think."
While Favre and Coles played catch, the defense battered Cardinals quarterback Kurt Warner.
Cornerback Darrelle Revis intercepted an errant throw and returned it 32 yards for a touchdown.
Safety Eric Smith tipped another pass and intercepted it.
Linebacker David Bowens forced a fumble by Warner.
The last turnover, the fumble forced by Bowens, might have been the most egregious.
The Cardinals had taken over on that possession with 10 seconds left, and after the Jets recovered the ball, Jay Feely kicked a 20-yard field goal for a 34-0 lead.
It was the most the Jets had ever scored in a quarter.
Asked to describe the craziness of it, Jets Coach Eric Mangini said, "The second quarter or the third quarter?"
When he was told both - the Jets allowed 21 unanswered points in the third quarter - Mangini said: "I can tell you I enjoyed the second quarter a lot more than I did the third quarter.
There were a lot of points scored in a short amount of time."
Rested Gebrselassie Tops His World Record
Haile Gebrselassie of Ethiopia again showed why many consider him the greatest distance runner ever, breaking his own world record in the marathon in Berlin on Sunday and becoming the first person to run the 26.2-mile race under 2 hours 4 minutes.
With a victory on the accommodatingly flat course in 2:03:59, Gebrselassie shattered by 27 seconds his previous mark of 2:04:26, run last year in Berlin.
At 35, Gebrselassie set the 26th world record of a career of such stunning breadth that he has produced a world championship or world record at every distance from the metric mile to the marathon.
Last month, Gebrselassie skipped the Olympic marathon in Beijing, fearing - perhaps too alarmingly, in retrospect - that the air pollution would exacerbate his problems with asthma.
Instead, he signed to run in Berlin.
In near perfect conditions - sunny and 48 degrees at the start, 55 degrees at the finish - Gebrselassie won Sunday while averaging a blistering 4 minutes 43 seconds per mile.
As track runners like Gebrselassie and Paul Tergat of Kenya have turned to longer distances, the record for the marathon has fallen by more than two minutes in the past decade, since Ronaldo da Costa of Brazil won in Berlin in 2:06:05 in 1998.
After Sunday's victory, Gebrselassie told reporters that he had cramps in his calf two weeks ago and had missed a week of training.
Clearly, the layoff left him fresh, not rusty.
"I'm so happy," Gebrselassie told reporters.
"Everything was perfect.
I started again a week ago, and had some doubts today, but in the end everything was fine."
He has come under some criticism - especially in Kenya, Ethiopia's East African rival - for overly orchestrating his races, generally avoiding many of the world's top marathon stars, relying on pacemakers as if it were a track race, and placing world records ahead of a sense of competition.
But this criticism hardly diminishes the greatness of Gebrselassie's skill as a distance runner.
Paced by four Kenyans on Sunday, Gebrselassie reached the midway point in 1:02:04.
Two elite Kenyan runners, James Kwambai and Charles Kamathi, kept challenging Gebrselassie after the pacemakers faded.
A little more than three miles from the finish, Gebrselassie made a final surge to separate from Kwambai, who finished second in 2:05:36, improving his personal best by nearly five minutes.
Kamathi took third in 2:07:48.
In the women's race, Irina Mikitenko, a native of Kazakhstan who is now a German citizen, completed a remarkable year by winning in 2:19:19, the seventh-fastest time ever.
Paula Radcliffe of Great Britain holds the world record of 2:15:25.
Last spring, Mikitenko, 36, was a surprise winner of the London Marathon in 2:24:14.
She missed the Beijing Games with what was described as a back injury, but recovered to win in Berlin, setting a personal best by nearly five minutes in the third marathon she has run.
She ran a race of smart calculation, letting a quartet of Ethiopian and Kenyan runners break out to a wide lead, then reeling them after about 18 ½ miles.
Askale Tafa Magarsa of Ethiopia took second in 2:21.31, while Helena Kiprop of Kenya finished third in 2:25:01.
In a Town Apart, the Pride and Trials of Black Life
Hidden in the theme-park sprawl of greater Orlando, a few miles from the shiny, the loud and the gargantuan, lies a quiet town where the pride and complications of the African-American experience come to life.
Eatonville, the first all-black town to incorporate in the country and the childhood home of Zora Neale Hurston, is no longer as simple as she described it in 1935: "the city of five lakes, three croquet courts, 300 brown skins, 300 good swimmers, plenty guavas, two schools and no jailhouse."
It is now a place of pilgrimage.
Alice Walker, Toni Morrison and Ruby Dee have come to the annual Zora! Festival in Eatonville to pay their respects to Hurston, the most famous female writer of the Harlem Renaissance.
And yet in many ways, the town she described - and made a tourist stop by including it in the Florida travel guide produced by the Depression-era Federal Writers' Project - remains a place apart.
It is as independent, dignified and private as it was in the 1930s, when Hurston wrote that rural blacks in Florida often resisted sharing their true thoughts with the white man, who "knowing so little about us, he doesn't know what he is missing."
Even now, in a year when a black presidential nominee, Senator Barack Obama, has called for an open conversation about race, many here remain wary of the outsider's gaze.
"We're very cautious about how our story is told," said Hortense Jones, 59, a lifelong resident and member of the town's oldest church.
"It needs to be right."
Eatonville has long been defined as a paradox of triumph and struggle.
It is both a historic model of black empowerment and a community of nearly 2,400 where the poverty rates are twice the national average.
It is a literary hub but also an oak-shaded example of rural Southern black culture - sometimes disdained, sometimes praised - that was born of American slavery.
Not surprisingly, residents here are both proud and protective.
And the concern about Eatonville's image really began with Zora, which is all anyone here calls Hurston.
She introduced the world to her hometown through heartfelt, dialect-heavy books like "Mules and Men" (1935) and "Their Eyes Were Watching God" (1937).
Five paragraphs in the Florida guidebook transformed the town, just off Route 17, a road that runs through the oft-forgotten center of Florida into a stage of black history and human drama.
Bold as a bass drum in both life and literature, Hurston led readers to the store owned by Eatonville's first mayor, Joe Clarke, then veered into more private areas.
"Off the road on the left," she wrote, "is the brown-with-white-trim modern public school, with its well-kept yards and playgrounds, which Howard Miller always looks after, though he can scarcely read and write."
She also mentioned the new husband of Widow Dash and wrote that Lee Glenn "sells drinks of all kinds and whatever goes with transient rooms."
So in just a few hundred words, Hurston linked Eatonville with self-government but also illiteracy, remarriage and sex.
Clearly, Fodor's this was not.
In fact, it was not a portrait everyone appreciated.
"Zora told it like it was," said Ella Dinkins, 90, one of the Johnson girls Hurston immortalized by quoting men singing off-color songs about their beauty.
She added: "Some people didn't like that."
Hurston is still remembered here as a vivacious eccentric who frequently returned after her family moved to Jacksonville, Fla.
Augustus Franklin, 77, recalled that when Hurston sped into town, she usually arrived without notice in a thumping Chevrolet, smoking and wearing pants in a town that even today prides itself on dignified dress.
Most residents were fascinated, Mr. Franklin said, while many sneered.
"People were always glad to see Zora," Mr. Franklin said.
But, he added, rocking in his chair on a back patio overlooking Lake Sabelia, where Hurston was most likely baptized, "she never did stay too long."
When Hurston died in 1960, she was poor and her books had fallen out of print.
Along with much of the world, Eatonville seemed to have forgotten her.
Though she was once a literary star, a contemporary of Langston Hughes and the only black woman at Barnard College in the 1920s, she was buried in an unmarked grave in Fort Pierce, Fla., where she had been living.
In Eatonville, there were no major memorial services, no grand public readings.
"I don't think they understood her contribution to the world or her legacy at all," said Valerie Boyd, author of "Wrapped in Rainbows," a Hurston biography published in 2003.
A turning point came in the 1980s.
Orange County officials wanted to put a five-lane highway through town to replace Kennedy Boulevard, the community's puttering two-lane main street.
Orlando's sprawl had already pushed Interstate 4 through the western edge of town.
The proposal came as Eatonville was still recovering from a difficult period in its history.
Forced integration, among other things, had ended the community's relatively idyllic isolation.
In the 1950s, the fight over racial mixing brought hate to the community's doorstep.
"During that time, a bunch of white boys, they would come through and throw oranges and things at people sitting down on the side," Mr. Franklin said.
"We actually had a lady that got killed from that once.
They threw a watermelon out of the car."
In a 1955 letter to The Orlando Sentinel, Hurston questioned the Supreme Court's demand for forced integration, calling its decision in Brown v. Board of Education "insulting rather than honoring my race."
Residents now say that the desegregation of schools, while positive in some respects, diluted Eatonville's cohesiveness and undermined the confidence of its youth.
"Black children were accustomed to being hugged - I remember this - you hugged your teacher in the morning, you hugged your teacher at night," said N. Y. Nathiri, the daughter of Ella Dinkins and the executive director of Preserve the Eatonville Community, a nonprofit group.
That lasted, she added, until the teachers and students did not come from the same place.
"You were not hugging your white teacher because your white teacher - I mean there's a cultural divide there," Ms. Nathiri said.
Civil rights, however, helped create space for many more Zora Neale Hurstons - black writers, actors and artists who rose above prejudice, like she did, with buoyant self-assurance and lines like: "How can any deny themselves the pleasure of my company!
It's beyond me."
In 1975, the writer Alice Walker trekked to Hurston's unmarked grave and began fighting to resurrect her reputation.
Five years later, an acclaimed Hurston biography by Robert E. Hemenway hit bookshelves, reintroducing her to the American canon.
The highway project arrived just as Eatonville's most famous daughter had once again found the spotlight.
And this time, Hurston's old neighbors saw her as a savior.
The community began planning in 1988 for a Hurston festival to show what the county could ruin with its highway.
Thousands of fans came to the inaugural event two years later, and each January, many return for the celebration.
After several years, the county backed away from its road proposal.
"The five-laning of the highway resurrected, it put in what you'd call warp speed, real civic pride," Ms. Nathiri said.
Ms. Boyd put it more simply: "Zora saved Eatonville."
Victory over the highway project has helped change the town's self-image.
Out-of-towners like Rachelle Munson, a lawyer who began coming to church here in 1993, started to appear in larger numbers, and residents started to revalue the past.
Eatonville joined the national historic registry in 1998.
A new one-story library (named after Hurston, of course) opened in 2006 on a repaved and beautified Kennedy Boulevard.
Today, Eatonville remains a Florida anomaly: only six miles from downtown Orlando, it can, at times, feel like a back street in a summer rain, as small as it did when it was founded with just 27 black families in the 1880s.
(It is 90 percent black today.)
Outsiders who come looking for Eatonville's story, its meaning, are often still treated with caution.
Advance permission is required for most interviews, and certain things - like the murals at Eatonville's oldest church, painted by a white man, showing black men in the fields - are not allowed to be photographed.
Many in Eatonville, like Ms. Jones, a bold, confident teacher partial to bright red, still fear that their insular community will be misunderstood.
And yet, as the Hurston festival has expanded, a heightened level of hometown pride has also emerged.
Young people, in particular, tend to see Eatonville as Hurston saw her entire race: beautiful, problems and all, no better, no worse and as proud, creative, hard-working, silly and mixed-up as other racial and ethnic groups in America.
It is sincere civic affection that can be heard in the voice of Mr. Franklin's nephew, Edwin Harvey, 18, who plans to come back to Eatonville after college to work in local government or for the Police Department, which he said could use some help.
And even those who are younger, like Alondra and Alexia Kenon, 11-year-old twins from Winter Park, seem to have learned to describe Eatonville correctly.
"Most people, if they just drive through here, they'll think, 'Oh, this city is nothing compared to any of the other ones,' " Alondra Kenon said after church on a recent Sunday.
"But if you actually stop and take a moment to look at the history, it's a very nice city."
Over here in New York we all speak fluent finance
On the face of it, nothing has changed.
If tourists in Manhattan kept away from newsstands and the gargantuan television screens in Times Square, they wouldn't realise they were standing in the eye of a storm.
They would never guess that in the glass-fronted, honeycomb offices above their heads the bankers and hedge fund managers who monopolise New York are daily having the worst "bad day at the office" since the crash of 1929.
Delivery boys still rattle metal tea trolleys across sidewalks, ferrying trays of muffins for breakfast meetings.
Latino men still shuffle between apartment buildings carrying, like human mules, 50-odd pressed shirts hanging from a yoke across their shoulders.
Office workers still wait in line for their morning bagel at pavement food carts, and it is still impossible to get a yellow cab between 4pm and 7pm on a weekday.
It didn't feel as if there was a crisis at all, until, with all the talk of doom and gloom, I decided to open a new savings account on Thursday afternoon.
Even though I had timed the chore to coincide with the late afternoon lull at my local branch of JP Morgan Chase, a queue of 20 or so people was already waiting in line.
Not in front of the teller windows, to withdraw cash or make a deposit, but in front of the customer service desk, where older clients order cheque books, tourists ask for directions to Macy's department store and new customers open accounts.
Most of those ahead of me, I was to learn later from Starr, my "licensed personal banker", were lining up for the same reason as me.
Unlike me, however, they had already withdrawn savings from smaller banks in places from where they commuted, from the likes of New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Staten Island.
They had taken out money from so-called thrifts (a bit like a building society), credit unions and the type of hometown savings banks whose branches only operate within one state, and who say they treat customers like family.
In the past year, 15 of these banks have quietly gone bust.
In the last few days Washington Mutual, a bank with $327 billion of assets, went into receivership, and as New Yorkers headed home for the weekend on Friday night, another bank, Wachovia, with savings deposits of $440 billion, was on the hunt for a rescue buyer.
The office and shop workers standing in front of me, scared of another collapse, were moving their cash to a bank perceived to be a safe haven, the bank that is doing most of the bailing out on Wall Street.
Ordinary New Yorkers in the last few weeks have become fluent in finance.
A woman at my local Chinese supermarket, speaking into her phone, referred to Lehman Brothers, the bust bank, and its gaunt-looking chief executive Dick Fuld with all the familiarity as if she were bitching about an idle colleague.
And Lyn, the uniformed, fifty-something concierge of my apartment block, has changed tack from our normal topic of conversation about Brad and Angelina or my grocery delivery.
She told me, after my visit to the bank, that "I got all my savings in money market funds now.
I've switched, I'm not taking any risks."
Lives remembered: Vernon Handley and William Woodruff
Mark Brown writes: As Guildford's musical director from 1962, Vernon "Tod" Handley (obituary, Sept 11) had charge of the Guildford Philharmonic Orchestra and Choir.
As part of his music scheme for the borough, in the next year he founded his wonderful youth choir, Proteus.
It was supposed to be for under-21s, but by the time the Proteus sang its finale in 1979, several of us were in our late 20s - we just refused to give the choir up.
The name "Proteus" (the mythological shape-changer) represented the choir's willingness and ability to tackle whatever music was presented to it, whether madrigal or Messiaen, whether unaccompanied or with full orchestra.
The musical versatility produced by such a youth choir was often astonishing, always exciting, and it was all due to the inspiration of that one man and the enthusiasm for the music which remained absolutely constant throughout the years.
How often we were told by Tod to "let the music speak for itself".
He'd say: "The composer knows what he wants.
It's all there in the music.
So sing it!"
His baton technique was absolutely clear and precise, though never dictatorial, nor florid.
Whatever the musical standard, he always raised it even higher.
John Frayn Turner writes:
If any conductor should have been knighted it was Vernon Handley.
I knew him well during the two decades he conducted the Guildford Philharmonic from 1962 to 1982.
Over the past 40-odd years, I have reviewed more than 100 of his concerts and I can honestly say that I have never been disappointed with a single one - and many times inspired by them.
Tod Handley had that rare combination of greatness plus personal modesty.
He hated conductors who, in his words, simply "hawked one or two well-known war horses around the world".
He will be missed by so many of us.
William Woodruff
Professor John Beckett writes:
Your obituary of William Woodruff (Sept 25) states that "in 1946 he resumed economic history at Oxford and in 1950 became a Houblon-Norman research Fellow... while simultaneously studying for a BSc, an MA and a PhD".
This follows from Woodruff's author's note in Beyond Nab End, but it is not correct.
From 1946 to 1953 he was a lecturer in economic history at the University of Nottingham, during which time he completed a PhD thesis on the British rubber industry, supervised by Professor J. D. Chambers, and subsequently published in 1958 as The British Rubber Industry.
He did spend 1950-51 in the US on a Houblon-Norman fellowship, and the summer of 1952 at the universities of Illinois, Harvard and New York.
In 1953 he left Nottingham permanently for Illinois.
Why Woodruff chose to gloss over this part of his career is unknown.
Muslim graves desecrated as Austria swings to the right
Heinz-Christian Strache, left of the Austrian right-wing Austrian Freedom Party and Filip Dewinter of Belgian right wing party Vlaams Belang, take part in a manifestation to present the organisation of "Cities against Islamisation" in Antwerp, Thursday 17 January 2008.
They carry traffic-style signs depicting mosques with a red line running through.
Police are blaming far Right extremists for desecrating a Muslim cemetery in Austria, the same weekend that the political parties of the far Right made huge gains in the country's general election.
Over 90 graves were severely damaged at the cemetery in Traun, near Linz, some time between Friday night and this morning, in what police believe was an organised action.
The offenders sprayed Jewish symbols such as the Star of David over some of the graves, but detectives believe this may have been a bid to disguise the motives of extremists driven by a hatred of Muslim immigrants.
It is not clear whether the incident was in any way related to the elections.
A spokesman for the local Islamic Community said they were "deeply shocked" at the news of the desecration, which comes as the Muslim religious month of Ramadan nears its end.
Austria is meanwhile embarking on a round of soul-searching following its swing to the right in yesterday's parliamentary elections.
The two far-Right parties that captured almost 30 percent of the vote, the Freedom Party and the Alliance for the Future of Austria, have campaigned on an vehemently anti-immigration ticket and some of their slogans were deemed xenophobic by critics.
Heinz-Christian Strache, the head of the Freedom Party that won over 18 per cent of the vote, campaigned against headscarves and burkas and even expressed his opposition to foods that are perceived to be related to Islam.
At his final rally in Vienna, he spoke of a "European brotherhood" to prevent the rise of Islam.
Both parties seek to ban the building of mosques and minarets, arguing that they were political symbols of an ongoing Islamisation of Austria and Europe.
Polls and analysis conducted immediately after the elections, which established the far Right as the country's strongest political bloc, indicate that the change was brought about by predominately young voters who are concerned about their future in the European Union.
Gary Glitter banned from trip abroad
Gary Glitter, the glam rock star convicted of child sex abuse, has been banned by the courts from travelling to France and Spain.
Magistrates imposed the six month ban on Glitter after he informed the authorities monitoring him that he wanted to travel to Spain via France.
Police in Kent were granted the foreign travel ban last Thursday after giving magistrates evidence of Glitter's previous convictions for child sex abuse.
Glitter, real name, Paul Gadd, did not attend the hearing at Ashford Magistrates court in Kent but he was represented by solicitors Corker Binning.
A Court Service spokesman said:"On Thursday September 25 at Ashford Magistrates' Court, Kent Police applied for an application to prevent foreign travel to France and Spain until March 25 by Mr Paul Gadd.
"Paul Gadd did not attend in person."
Glitter, 64, had informed the authorities that he wished to travel abroad as he is required to under the sex offenders register.
He must give the authorities notice if he wishes to travel abroad for more than three days.
He is also required to give police seven days notice of his planned departure date.
Failure to notify the authorities could lead to a five year prison sentence.
Kent Police said they would not discuss individual cases or the possible whereabouts of Glitter in the county.
A Kent Police spokeswoman said: "Kent Police will do everything necessary to protect children in this country, or abroad.
"From our point of view, it is easier to monitor someone who remains in the UK because we have comprehensive systems in place to manage any potential risks more effectively.
"Protecting the residents of Kent is the paramount concern of Kent Police and we work closely to monitor the behaviour of registered sex offenders in the county to minimise any risk to the public that may exist."
Glitter returned to the UK last month after spending 27 months in a Vietnamese jail for the abuse of two girls, aged 10 and 11.
When he was freed Glitter flew to Bangkok where he was due to board a flight to London.
But he said he felt ill and refused to fly to London.
The Thai authorities would not allow him through passport control and he eventually flew to Hong Kong.
Chinese authorities also refused him entry and he flew back to Bangkok where Thai police and immigration officials insisted he return to Britain.
He eventually arrived at Heathrow's Terminal 3 on August 22 and stayed there while his solicitor David Corker went to Uxbridge Magistrates Court, west London, as Scotland Yard successfully applied for an order requiring him to register as a sex offender.
Glitter had previously been jailed in the UK for four months in 1999 for possessing images of child abuse.
A Home Office source said that Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary was reassured and glad that Glitter has been stopped from travelling to France and Spain.
US artist's son 'in museum theft'
The son of renowned American fantasy artist Frank Frazetta, has been charged with trying to steal paintings worth $20m (£12m) from his father's museum.
Police in Pennsylvania say Alfonso Frank Frazetta was caught loading 90 paintings into his vehicle and trailer.
They say Mr Frazetta and another man used an excavator to break into the museum in the Pocono Mountains region.
Mr Frazetta Snr, aged 81, is famed for his depiction of characters such as Conan the Barbarian and Tarzan.
The artist was in Florida at the time of the incident, the Associated Press news agency reported.
AP quoted an unnamed police official as saying the younger Mr Frazetta may have been motivated by a family feud.
A police affidavit said Mr Frazetta Jnr, 52, claimed he had been instructed by his father to "enter the museum by any means necessary to move all the paintings to a storage facility", the agency reported.
Mr Frazetta Snr denied granting any such permission, the agency said.
Labour defends budget tax rises
Ministers have defended the tax rises and spending cuts announced in the pre-Budget report against criticism from the opposition, business and unions.
The Tories said Alistair Darling "blew" an opportunity to show he was serious about cutting the deficit by delaying decisions until after the election.
The chancellor also came under fire for hitting low and middle income workers.
Among his headline proposals are a 0.5% rise in National Insurance and a 1% cap on public pay settlements from 2011.
National Insurance anger
Unions have protested that low-paid workers are being penalised for a recession not of their making and warned of "problems" ahead.
The National Insurance increase - which will raise about £3bn a year - has angered the business community, which says it is a tax on jobs when the focus should be on economic recovery.
The increase, limited to those earning more than £20,000 a year, will hit about 10 million workers.
KEY POINTS OF PBR
National Insurance up by a further 0.5% from April 2011
Economy to shrink by worse than expected 4.75% this year
New 50% tax on banker bonuses
1p rise in corporation tax for small firms scrapped
Tax rebates for electric cars and wind turbines
State pension to rise by 2.5%
According to Treasury estimates, someone earning £30,000 will be £90 a year worse off and someone on £40,000 will be £190 worse off, while someone earning £10,000 a year will be £110 better off.
Ministers said their target of halving the deficit by 2013 meant "difficult decisions" but insisted that 60% of the burden of extra taxes would fall upon the top 5% of earners.
Treasury minister Stephen Timms denied the tax rises and spending cuts outlined were a "drop in the ocean" compared to what was needed.
"These are large numbers. They will deliver for us this halving of the deficit which is absolutely essential over the next four years," he told the BBC.
Mr Timms said he was confident the economy would return to growth by the turn of the year.
However, Labour forecasts for future economic growth - which will influence the amount it has to borrow and how quickly he deficit is cut - have been questioned after the chancellor was forced to revise earlier figures.
In his statement, he said the economy was likely to contract 4.75% this year - far worse than the 3.5% decline predicted in April - while borrowing would be £3bn higher than earlier estimated.
'Blown opportunity'
The Conservatives, who will launch a new advertising campaign on Thursday warning of Labour's "debt crisis", said projected borrowing of £789bn over the next six years was unsustainable.
Mnisters had failed to lay out a credible plan for how they would pay this back, they added, "cynically" ducking tough choices until after the election - which must be held by June 2010.
"They have not included anything of significance they are going to do," said shadow Treasury minister Philip Hammond. "They had an opportunity to do it and they have blown it."
" The all important announcements will come after the election, whoever wins it "
Roger Bootle, Deloitte
Labour insist that schools, hospitals and the police will be protected from future cuts unlike under Tory proposals which would see the deficit cut faster and further.
But the Lib Dems said the money raised by tax rises and spending cuts would be used to support spending next year not to reduce the deficit, arguing the plans were "built on sand".
The BBC's political editor Nick Robinson said some of the timing of the announcements - such as the above inflation increase in some disability benefits next April - would leave the chancellor open to accusations of electioneering as the money may simply be clawed back the year after.
However, Labour insist the extra help is being provided when people need it most and the situation will be reviewed in September 2010.
'Phoney budget'
Although ministers did not publish spending details for beyond 2011, economists said it was clear the squeeze on public spending would only begin to bite in the medium term.
The respected Institute for Fiscal Studies said the chancellor's figures implied substantial cuts in many areas, potentially including transport, higher education, science and defence, in the future.
"It really is holding off the pain until later," said its director Robert Chote.
"The all important announcements will come after the election, whoever wins it," added Roger Bootle, economic adviser to accountants Deloitte.
"This has been the phoney pre-Budget report. The markets realise this."
FBI probes 'US Pakistan arrests'
The FBI is investigating the arrest in Pakistan of five reported US men on suspicion of extremist links.
The men were arrested in a raid on a house in Sarghoda in eastern Punjab province, Pakistan's US embassy told the BBC.
The FBI has said it is investigating whether they are the same men who were reported missing from their homes in the US state of Virginia last month.
The US State Department said it was also seeking information on the men.
Three of them are reported to be of Pakistani descent, one of Egyptian heritage and the other of a Yemeni background.
"If they are American citizens, we of course are going to be very interested in the charges that they've been detained on and in what sort of circumstances they're being held," said spokesman Ian Kelly.
FBI spokeswoman Katherine Schweit said the agency was aware of the arrests and was in contact with the families of the missing students.
"We are working with Pakistan authorities to determine their identities and the nature of their business there, if indeed these are the students who had gone missing," she said.
The Pakistani embassy in Washington said the men were arrested in a house belonging to an uncle of one of them.
He said the house was already of interest to local police and that no charges had yet been filed against the arrested men.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton declined to comment on the arrests, reported the Reuters news agency, but said the US had to "work more closely with both Afghanistan and Pakistan to try to root out the infrastructure of terrorism that continues to recruit and train people".
The five students were reported missing from their homes in northern Virginia by their families in late November.
Amnesty condemns Iranian 'abuses'
Human rights in Iran are as poor as at any time over the past 20 years, according to a report from campaign group Amnesty International.
The report details "patterns of abuse" by the regime before and after disputed presidential elections in June.
One man quoted in the report said he had been beaten and burned with cigarettes. Another said he was threatened with rape.
Iran has dismissed previous criticism of its human rights record.
Officials have said such criticism is politically motivated.
Thousands of people were arrested and dozens killed in Iran after the disputed election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad led to the largest street protests since the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
Dozens have been given jail terms, and prosecutors say at least five people have been sentenced to death.
BBC Tehran correspondent, Jon Leyne, who is now in London, says that early in the protests, the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, accepted some of the allegations of abuse, ordering the closure of the Kahrizak detention centre.
But since then, there has been almost no tolerance of criticism by the authorities, our correspondent says.
'False confession'
Amnesty International cited the account of 26-year-old computing student Ebrahim Mehtari, who said he was accused of "working with Facebook networks" and protesting against the election result.
"They frequently beat me on the face," he was quoted as saying.
"I was burned with cigarettes under my eyes, on the neck, head... They threatened to execute me and they humiliated me."
After five days he signed a false confession and was taken out and left in the street, still bleeding and semi-conscious, Amnesty said.
In August, defeated presidential candidate Mehdi Karroubi said some protesters detained after the election had been tortured to death in prison and others had been raped.
Iranian officials denied the rape claims, but admitted that abuses had taken place.
Amnesty also cited the case of a former detainee who said he was held in a container with 75 others for more than eight weeks at a detention centre at Kahrizak.
Amnesty accepted that the Iranian parliament and judiciary had established committees to investigate the post-election unrest and the government's response, but it said the mandate and powers of the bodies were unclear and the parliamentary committee's findings had not been made public.
The group said at least 90 people had been arrested in the past three weeks to forestall further demonstrations.
Ski slope is created in city park
More than 100 tonnes of artificial snow were used to turn a Bristol landmark into a piste for a competition.
The Piste in the Park event attracted 16 semi-professional skiers and snow borders competing for cash prizes.
At the top of the slope in Brandon Hill park there was a short jump ramp before a 100m-long slope.
Fourth-year medical student John Hickman said there was a beautiful view from the top of the slope but it was pretty daunting.
It's a beautiful view with all the city lights below all twinkling.
There's some of the best skiers and snow borders in the county here - some real talent," he added.
Prizes were awarded for the best tricks - or manoeuvres performed on the slope.
After Thursday evening's event the snow will be left to melt away.
Still them and us
Can Islam Be French?
Pluralism and Pragmatism in a Secularist State.
AT A time when Swiss voters have called for a ban on the construction of minarets and there is widespread alarm over the supposed Islamisation of Europe, John Bowen, an American academic, has written an informed and measured account of whether Muslims can integrate—and are integrating—into one of the continent’s most avowedly secular societies.
Some readers will come to this new book as admirers of the author’s last work, "Why the French Don’t Like Headscarves" (2006), an elegant and closely argued study of an issue that divided and preoccupied the country for a decade and a half, and whose effects are still felt today.
Mr Bowen’s latest book has a broader and more ambitious canvas.
As a good anthropologist, he wants to know not just what the politicians and the media are saying about Islam in France, but what is actually happening on the ground.
He has spent months in the mosques, schools and institutes which now provide France’s 5m-6m Muslims with what Mr Bowen calls "Islamic spaces".
He is a good listener, reproducing debates between teachers and students about the questions that concern them most.
Should a Muslim get married in a mosque or a town hall (or both)?
Should young Muslims be taught about evolution and gay rights?
Can a Muslim woman marry a non-Muslim man?
Is it legitimate for a Muslim to use an interest-based banking system to get a mortgage?
It is these seemingly mundane issues, he argues, that are the stuff of daily life rather than the political dramas that preoccupy the media.
The author identifies a new generation of imams, teachers and intellectuals, none of them household names, with the possible exception of Tariq Ramadan, a Swiss-born Arab Muslim scholar and academic.
This new generation is trying to open up the debate about how to be both a good Muslim and a good citizen in a modern secular society.
They are not having the argument all their way.
Conservatives are suspicious of the very idea of a French or European Islam.
The thinkers and activists whom Mr Bowen interviews tend to be at odds with their Salafi counterparts—advocates of the purist Sunni Islam associated with Saudi Arabia—who nowadays have a small but influential presence among Europe’s Muslims.
Mr Bowen thinks that Muslim values and French secularism could be compatible.
But accommodation requires give-and-take on both sides.
He questions how far French policymakers (and the intellectual elite that so fiercely guards laïcité) are really committed to pluralism.
He suggests that Muslims are probably getting a rawer deal than the Catholics, Protestants and Jews who have also had to make their historic compromises with secular republicanism.
Rather than a growing pragmatism, he detects a "tightening of the value-screws".
Can Islam be French? After reading this book, one is inclined to say, "Yes, but not yet."
The bleakest outlook in the world
THE Arctic is changing faster and more dramatically than any other environment on the planet.
The ice that defines it is melting with alarming speed, taking with it life that can survive nowhere else.
Oil, gas, shipping and fishing interests have been heading into the newly open water, with diplomats, lawyers, and now authors, in their wake.
In "On Thin Ice" Richard Ellis, a writer and illustrator, paints a natural history of the icon of the north, the polar bear.
Well-versed in the complicated history and politics of whaling, he describes the long tradition of Arctic explorers who proved themselves by taking on the white bear.
Admiral Nelson’s encounter as a plucky 14-year-old midshipman fighting only with the butt of his musket is surely a myth, but others are true.
Young bears, captured as they swam after the bodies of their newly killed mothers, were caught and sent to zoos and circuses.
One early 20th-century big-top act featured 75 polar bears at once.
Even today, zoo enclosures are still typically a millionth of the area of a wild adult’s range. The climate is rarely suitable: the resident polar bear in Singapore has turned green from algae growing within the hollow hairs of its coat.
Click here to find out more!
Mr Ellis draws on the accounts of other writers and historians, and often returns to the threat that hunters pose to the survival of the species.
Although banned in Norway, America and Russia, the killing continues in Greenland and Canada, where hunters in helicopters and skidoo-riding Inuit Indians both use high-powered assault rifles to bring down their quarry.
Ironically it is in the waters towards the north of those two hunting nations that the ice will last longest.
In his new book, "After the Ice", Alun Anderson, a former editor of New Scientist, offers a clear and chilling account of the science of the Arctic and a gripping glimpse of how the future may turn out there.
Not that scientists have all the answers.
Neither atmospheric scientists nor oceanographers can adequately account for the speed of the changes.
It is not for want of trying.
Fridtjof Nansen’s pioneering journeys at the end of the 19th century and early 20th century first hinted at the whirling of the ice pack.
Cold-war submarines then mapped the shifting ridges running beneath it.
Satellite surveys and large arrays of iceberg-mounted probes are a useful addition, but much is still done by hardy individuals camped out in the cold.
Mr Anderson looks in on the extraordinary, tiny world of the tributary system within the Arctic ice, formed by trickles of briny water which gets squeezed as it freezes.
But from the bear above to the microscopic wonders within, all are doomed once the summer ice goes, which is expected to happen at some point between 2013 and 2050.
'In a few months...this could be us'
Marines among 6,000 who place wreaths on graves at Arlington
Pfc. De'Angello Robinson, 19, traveled seven hours by bus to place a single wreath on the tomb of a soldier whom he'd never met.
For him, and the other Marines who took the trip from Camp Johnson in Jacksonville, N.C. to Arlington National Cemetery to decorate graves, the day was about paying tribute to men and women who once stood in their shoes.
In a few months, from where we are getting shipped out, this could be us, said Robinson of the fallen soldiers.
If it is us, I would want somebody to do the same for me so I'm just trying to show respect.
He was one of more than 6,000 volunteers who gathered Saturday morning to place wreaths on veterans' gravesites across several sections of Arlington Ceremony.
In 1992, Morrill Worcester, owner of Worcester Wreath Company in Harrington, Maine, began the event when he and several others decided to decorate several hundred gravesites at Arlington Ceremony.
Now an 18-year-old tradition, Morrill and his wife Karen, make the trip every year stopping in different cities along the way to host events dedicated to the people in the military and victims of terrorism.
The Worcesters also founded a non-profit, Wreaths Across America, which has spread the event across other states.
This year, volunteers placed more than 16,000 wreaths on the graves at Arlington Cemetery, areas at the Pentagon, graves at Fayetteville National Cemetery in Arkansas, Battery Park in New York City and on the memorial site for United Airlines Flight 93 in Shanksville, Pa.
For the second year, the Walmart Foundation donated more than $150,000 to purchase, and transport the wreaths.
Charleen Hunt, 70, of Westminster, said she made the trip to Arlington in honor of her husband, a deceased career military man.
While her husband is not buried at Arlington, Hunt said this was her way of giving back to those who made sacrifices.
It's a small way civilians can support our troops, she said.
It's like visiting a family gravesite.
Wrapped in layers of warm clothing, volunteers walked across the cemetery's expansive lawns and hills.
Volunteers targeted older tombs from World War I, World War II, and the war in Vietnam because they are not visited as often as newer graves, organizers said.
The mood was upbeat as children played and couples held hands while carrying the fresh pine to the graying tombstones.
Each circular wreath was a deep green with a small red bow fastened across the top.
Nearby, Section 60, where most veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are buried, remained virtually silent.
The United Service Organizations donated 1,000 wreaths to decorate the section but the somber mood of the current wars filled the area.
Individuals openly wept, others prayed, and families and friends held each other in the frigid air.
Some read aloud names carved into the stones while others bowed to see small black and white place cards pushed inside wet mud for those whose tombstones have not yet been completed.
Sandra Lockwood was one of the many mothers wiping tears from her eyes in front of her son's grave.
She drove eight hours from Zanesfield, Ohio to visit the gravesite of Marine Gunnery Sgt. David Shane Spicer who died in combat in July.
Nobody should ever forget why we're free. . .my son paid for that, she said.
"When I'm long gone, I want someone to remember him."
U.S. government contractor arrested by Cuban officials
The Cuban government has arrested a U.S. government contractor who was distributing cellphones and laptop computers in the country, State Department officials said Saturday.
The contractor, who has not yet been identified, works for Development Alternatives Inc., based in Bethesda.
The company works on projects for clients such as the U.S. Agency for International Development and the World Bank.
Consular officers with the U.S. Interest Section in Havana are seeking access to the detainee, who was arrested Dec. 5.
The specific charges have not been made public, though under Cuban law, a Cuban citizen or a foreign visitor can be arrested for nearly anything under the claim of "dangerousness."
All so-called counter-revolutionary activities, which include mild protests and critical writings, carry the risk of arrest.
Anti-government graffiti and speech are considered serious crimes.
Cuba has a fledging blogging community, led by the popular commentator Yoani Sánchez, who often writes about how she and her husband are followed and harassed by government agents.
Sánchez has repeatedly applied for permission to leave the country to accept awards but has been denied permission.
The detention of an American contractor may likely raise tensions between the Castro brothers Communist government in Cuba and the Obama administration, which has been pursuing a "go-slow" approach to improving relations with the island.
News of the arrest was first reported by the New York Times Friday night.
The new U.S. policy stresses that if the Cuban government takes concrete steps, such as freeing political prisoners and creating more space for opposition, the United States will reciprocate.
Cellphones and laptops are legal in Cuba, though they are new and coveted commodities in a country where the average wage of a government worker is $15 a month.
The Cuban government granted ordinary citizens the right to buy cellphones just this year; they are used mostly for texting, as a 15-minute telephone conversation would eat up a day's wages.
Internet use is extremely limited on the island.
It is available in expensive hotels and to foreign visitors there, and at some government outlets, such as universities.
Cubans who want to log on often have to give their names to the government.
Access to many Web sites is restricted.
The detention of an American in Cuba is rare.
Most of the handful of U.S. citizens in jail in Cuba are behind bars for crimes such as drug smuggling, said Gloria Berbena, the press officer at the U.S. Interests Section in Havana.
Berbena said she could not provide more information on the arrest.
The arrest and detention are clearly wrong.
An activity that in any other open society would be legal -- giving away free cellphones -- is in Cuba a crime, said Jose Miguel Vivanco, director of the Americas program of the group Human Rights Watch, which recently issued a tough report on freedoms in Cuba called "New Castro, Same Cuba," a reference to the installation of Raul Castro as the leader of the country to replace his ailing older brother Fidel.
Vivanco said that the accused are often arrested, tried and imprisoned in a day.
He said that any solution would likely be political and that the Cuban government often provokes a negative reaction in the United States just as the two countries begin to move toward more dialogue.
Pakistani officials unraveling plot to send men to Afghanistan
Pakistani authorities on Saturday zeroed in on the alleged mastermind of a plot to send five Northern Virginia men to Afghanistan to kill U.S. troops, saying they hope the case could help unravel an extensive network of terrorist recruiters who scour the Internet for radicalized young men.
Investigators said they were hunting for a shadowy insurgent figure known as Saifullah, who invited the men to Pakistan after first discovering them when one made comments approving of terror attacks on the Internet video site YouTube.
Saifullah guided the men once they were in Pakistan, attempting to help them reach the remote area in Pakistan's tribal belt that is home to al-Qaeda and its terrorist training camps.
But a Pakistani intelligence official who had been briefed on the case said Saturday that Saifullah was unsuccessful in convincing al-Qaeda commanders that the men were not part of a CIA plot to infiltrate the terrorist network.
As a result, they were marooned for days in the eastern city of Sargodha, far from the forbidding mountains of the northwest that have become a terrorist haven.
They were regarded as a sting operation.
That's why they were rejected, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the case.
The official said the men were undeterred and were still trying to acquire the right endorsements to gain access to the al-Qaeda camps when they were arrested by Pakistani law enforcement.
The case of the five -- who remain in Pakistan and are being questioned by the FBI -- underscores the critical role of recruiters in identifying potential terrorists and, perhaps more importantly, determining who can be trusted.
Since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, U.S. intelligence has made it a top priority to try to place human assets inside al-Qaeda.
The organization's recruiters act as gatekeepers, keeping out those who are not serious about their commitment to holy war, and those who could be spies.
Would-be American recruits are treated by al-Qaeda with special scrutiny, analysts said.
But they are also considered enormously appealing to the group because of their potential to access U.S. targets and because of their propaganda value.
But Evan Kohlmann, senior analyst with the U.S.-based NEFA Foundation, said terror groups have also become much more cautious in recent years about who they allow in because U.S. intelligence agencies have become experts in their recruiting methods.
If you're trying to sink someone into these groups, what better way than to follow the recruitment model that so many have already followed? Kohlmann said.
The model is one that has become far more Web-based.
Tens of thousands protest in Copenhagen, demand climate 'action'
Tens of thousands of protesters marched on the streets here Saturday, demanding bolder action on climate from the negotiators working inside the city's Bella Convention Center.
Protesters said as many 100,000 people joined in the event, but police estimated the count was closer to 25,000.
The event was relatively peaceful, though a handful of masked activists set off small explosives near a group of government buildings downtown.
On a day when little happened in the U.N.-sponsored climate talks, thousands of activists walked across the city holding banners in English saying "There is No Planet B" and one in Spanish declaring, "The Earth is Saying, 'Enough.'
Several celebrities joined the protest, including Danish model and photographer Helena Christensen, who said that traveling to her mother's native country of Peru made me aware of the heartbreaking issues the country is dealing with due to the impacts of climate changes that are already occurring."
This is part of the reason why I have decided to join the big march -- to pass on the word and to appeal to the world's leaders to deliver a fair, ambitious and binding deal, she said.
It is not an easy task, but it needs to be done, there is no way around it anymore.
The police kept the protesters from getting too close to the Bella center, and said they had arrested 19 people, primarily on the grounds that they had either worn masks or carried pocket knives.
Those activities are banned during demonstrations under Danish law.
According to one bystander, who asked not to be identified because he is involved in the climate talks, activists sporting masks and black outfits set off several explosives near Copenhagen's main canal, which is nearby several ministries.
They were lobbing them by the buildings, he said, adding they began as flares but were followed by "a couple big explosions."
Inside the convention center, people gathered around television screens to watch the march throughout the afternoon.
But the protest did not seem to penetrate the consciousness of key officials such as Su Wei, China's chief climate negotiator.
When asked whether he thought the demonstration was having a constructive impact on the international deliberations, he replied in English, "Actually, that is something that I was not aware of."
He then continued in Mandarin, saying, "Because the venue is large, I cannot hear what is happening outside."
He observed that whether the march was hurting or helping depended on one's perspective.
It shows the concentration of the general public and different sectors on the subject of climate change, he said.
On the other hand, "You can also say that they disrupt the negotiations, or the freedom of other people.
Test data reveal stubborn racial gaps
Last week's federal report card on math achievement was a welcome piece of good news for D.C. public schools.
Although the District still lags far behind the country's top-performing systems, the report card showed fourth- and eighth-graders making strides at a faster pace over the past two years than cities including Atlanta, Chicago and New York.
But what remains embedded in the latest numbers from the National Assessment of Educational Progress is the persistent achievement gap between African American and white students both locally and nationally.
The average scores of white D.C. fourth-graders over the past two years grew from 262 to 270 (on a scale of 500), but their African American peers' rose just three points, from 209 to 212.
The achievement gap actually grew between 2007 and 2009, from 53 to 58 points.
African American progress in the eighth grade remained essentially flat, dipping a statistically insignificant one point, from 245 to 244.
Average white scores were not included in the test results because the sample size wasn't large enough.
The picture across a six-year stretch isn't more encouraging.
The gap separating white and black fourth-graders in 2003, when the first NAEP in the District was given, was 60 scale points (262 to 202).
Although the scores achieved by children in both groups have increased during this period, the difference has barely narrowed to 58.
Some education advocates in the District expressed concern last week that the gains celebrated by Chancellor Michelle A. Rhee and Mayor Adrian M. Fenty (D) were propelled largely by white students who are already high achievers.
It would suggest that we've raised the aggregate by treating those at the higher end of the scale, which is problematic and troublesome, said Jeff Smith, executive director of D.C. Voice, a nonprofit group that advocates for educational equality in the District.
I'm not jumping up and down about a two- or three-point spread, said D.C. Council member Kwame R. Brown (D-At Large), who has a daughter in the fourth grade at Eaton Elementary.
A frequent critic of Rhee's management style, Brown said the message of the test scores is that the city's middle schools are in desperate need of attention.
Clearly, you always want to see the plus signs, and I respect that.
But what's scary is we're not spending nearly the time and energy we need to spend on our middle schools.
Rhee said the District needs to continue to find better ways to address the needs of low-achieving students.
This fall, for example, some teachers are being trained to use a new reading curriculum, the Wilson Reading System, targeted to students in the upper elementary and middle school grades who didn't master the basics of reading early in their school careers and are significantly behind their peers.
Everyday Mathematics, a K-through-sixth-grade math curriculum emphasizing games and real-life experiences that was brought to the District under former superintendent Clifford Janey, is credited with some of the NAEP progress reported last week.
I just think we have to keep working at bringing the best interventions to those students who are below grade level, Rhee said.
Others say that the NAEP's results highlight the question of whether Rhee can continue to lift the overall performance of the system and still provide the additional money and resources for low-performing schools that will be necessary to narrow the gap.
There is a sort of rough-edged dilemma here for Michelle Rhee, said Bruce Fuller, an education professor at the University of California at Berkeley who studies urban test scores.
The conventional policy remedy is to target your resources and management reforms on schools located in the poorest sections of D.C.
So the targeting may yield political repercussions that go against that important agenda.
But the rub, of course, is like other urban superintendents, she's trying to hold on to the white and black middle class.
Our focus is on ensuring that we build a system of great schools.
We need to strengthen our neighborhood schools so that all families, regardless of where they live, are confident that their children can get an excellent public education.
Janey, now superintendent of schools in Newark, said in an interview this week that one essential element to closing the achievement gap is to lengthen the traditional public school year, currently 180 days in the District, to compete with charter schools.
You have to get up near 200 days to have the force of change, said Janey, who came to agreement with his teachers' union last year on a 185-day year, which he regards as "a marker" for seeking a bigger increase in the next contract.
Making higher education a part of more futures
The tour bus pulled into Gettysburg College with a loud wheeze.
Graciela Rodriguez, 12, stepped off and blinked for a moment at the white columns, brick facades and emerald lawns.
Graciela's parents had barely graduated from high school in El Salvador.
Until recently, Graciela herself, who was born in Silver Spring and lives in Riverdale, had never set foot on a college campus.
Yet as she and the other eighth-graders in the group explored Gettysburg, where the tuition runs $38,690 a year, their attitude was less that of awestruck visitors than of enthusiastic prospective students.
Yes! This is where I'll be! exclaimed Graciela, who would like to study medicine, when the guide announced that they'd entered the science building.
Wow, really? she said thoughtfully, when told of the school's low professor-to-student ratio.
The Pennsylvania college was the seventh the kids had visited on their three-day tour, and by now they had completely absorbed its intended message: The question is not whether you're going to college.
The question is where.
Although there is mounting concern about the large number U.S.-born children of Hispanic immigrants who drop out of high school or get pregnant as teenagers, there are also hundreds of thousands who are getting the college educations they need to enter the middle class.
In fact, one in five of these "second-generation" Hispanics graduates from college -- a notable achievement given that so many of their immigrant parents, mostly Mexicans and Central Americans, entered the United States without finishing high school.
Their success stories are important, researchers say, because they point the way forward for a generation that will play an outsize role in the country's workforce.
Those who study high achievers say they often have a natural affinity for school and an innate drive to succeed.
Many also have parents who set lofty goals for their children and find ways to compensate for their unfamiliarity with American schools.
But mentoring programs also can play an enormous role in helping Graciela and millions of children like her make it to college -- particularly if those efforts are sustained over time.
When you're looking at low-income kids whose parents don't have the experience and the skills to help them navigate through the system, any single intervention at any one point in time is not going to solve it, said Patricia Gándara, a researcher at the University of California, Davis, who has studied Latino students.
We need to think about providing a supportive network for these kids from preschool all the way on through high school.
The federal program that funded Graciela's college tour is a useful example.
Known as GEAR UP, it provides more than $300 million a year to local school systems to run college prep programs that begin when low-income students are in middle school and continue until they finish high school.
Since 1999, the program has served more than 10 million students, with more than 60 percent going on to college, according to the U.S. Department of Education.
Iraqi Oil Ministry reaches deals with 10 foreign oil companies
Despite concerns about violence and political instability, the Iraqi government managed to attract major oil companies to rebuild its ailing infrastructure during two auctions that concluded Saturday.
The 10 deals the Iraqi Oil Ministry reached with foreign oil companies suggest that China, Russia and European oil firms are poised to play a major role in refurbishing Iraq's oil industry, crippled by decades of war and sanctions.
American companies walked away with stakes in just two of the 10 auctioned fields.
Seven American companies had paid to participate in the second auction, which began Friday.
The only one that submitted a bid lost.
Two American companies reached deals for fields auctioned in June.
The meager representation of American oil giants in Iraq's opening oil industry surprised analysts.
Iraq finally opened its doors after six years of war, and instead of U.S. companies, you have Asians and Europeans leading the way, said Ruba Husari, the editor of Iraq Oil Forum, an online news outlet.
It will be a long time before anything else will be on offer in Iraq.
Concerns over security, underscored by massive coordinated bombings Tuesday, and political instability as the U.S. military withdraws, likely kept American oil companies from venturing more forcefully in Iraq, which has the world's third-largest proven crude reserves, analysts said.
U.S. firms were in some cases at a disadvantage because rivals, particularly the Chinese and other government controlled energy firms, have markedly lower labor costs and are more prone to take risks because they don't respond to shareholders.
Exxon-Mobil and Occidental Petroleum Inc. were the only American companies that reached deals with the ministry.
Major U.S. firms such as Chevron and ConocoPhillips, which have cultivated close ties with the Iraqi Oil Ministry and have provided technical advice in recent years, walked away empty-handed.
Russian companies Lukoil and Gazprom were the top stakeholders in two of the contracts awarded this weekend.
State-owned Chinese National Petroleum Corp. bid on more contracts than any other company and walked away with large stakes in contracts for two major fields.
We all know that China is on track to become a major economic as well as technological power, Oil Ministry spokesman Assam Jihad said.
We feel confident that the Chinese company will be on par with its competitors and will deliver on its commitments towards Iraq.
Companies pre-selected to submit bids made offers that were then compared to the per barrel fee the ministry was willing to pay for boosting output above current levels at each field.
Top al-Qaeda planner apparently killed in Pakistan
An apparent U.S. missile strike along Pakistan's border with Afghanistan is believed to have killed a top al-Qaeda operations planner this week, U.S. counterterrorism officials said Friday.
If confirmed, this would be the second deadly attack against a senior terrorist leader this fall.
Saleh al-Somali was one of two Arab men thought to have been killed when a pair of missiles tore into their car Tuesday near the town of Miran Shah in North Waziristan province, according to U.S. sources and Pakistani officials in the region.
Local authorities said the missiles were fired by an unmanned aircraft of the type operated by the CIA inside Pakistan's lawless tribal belt.
They were driving in a white car, heading toward the Afghan border, when the car was hit, said an official with Pakistan's civilian intelligence agency, speaking by phone from Miran Shah.
The official said suspected local militants rushed to the spot and quickly confiscated what remained of the "totally demolished bodies."
Local authorities were unable to verify the victims' identities, but two U.S. counterterrorism officials cited unspecified evidence that Somali was among the dead.
Somali was described as a senior al-Qaeda military planner who ran the terrorist group's operations outside the Afghanistan-Pakistan region.
He was engaged in plotting throughout the world, said one senior official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing the sensitive nature of U.S. airstrikes inside Pakistani territory.
Given his central role, this probably included plotting attacks against the United States and Europe.
He took strategic guidance from al-Qaeda's top leadership and translated it into operational blueprints for prospective terrorist attacks.
The second U.S. official said Somali had risen quickly through al-Qaeda's ranks and was well-connected with other extremist groups in the region.
He may not be a household name to some Americans, but that in no way diminishes the threat he posed to us and our allies, the second official said.
If his death is confirmed, Somali would be the second senior al-Qaeda or Taliban leader killed since September, when a similar strike killed Najmuddin Jalolov, the leader of a militant faction in the tribal belt, and three other top operatives.
The tempo of strikes by CIA-run drones has declined since the summer, from an average of about six operations per month to two, according to a tally by the Long War Journal, a Web site managed by a nonprofit group.
The decline may be due to improved tactics by terrorist groups, which have taken steps to limit their vulnerability while also ruthlessly killing suspected informants, the site said.
Top U.N. envoy in Kabul to step down
The United Nations' top envoy in Afghanistan, Kai Eide, said Friday that he would step down from his post in March, ending a tumultuous tenure that was marred by allegations of widespread corruption in Afghanistan's U.N.-backed presidential election.
Eide's departure comes as the Obama administration has decided to send an additional 30,000 U.S. troops to Afghanistan.
The U.N. envoy said that he supports the surge but expressed concern that the U.S. timetable for a military drawdown beginning in 18 months would prompt other NATO governments to withdraw their forces.
We need to accelerate the buildup of the Afghan security forces and send the right signal to the Afghans that they can trust the international community, Eide said in a telephone interview from Kabul.
The commitment has to be long-term.
The Norwegian diplomat also pressed the United States and other military powers to increase the number of international civil servants aiding Afghanistan's political transition.
The surge on the military side has to be copied on the civilian side, he said.
Eide said he was not resigning but simply fulfilling a commitment he made to his family in March 2008 to spend only two years in Kabul.
He said he wanted to serve notice to U.N.
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon now so that he would have time to find a replacement.
What I've said is that you better start looking for a successor, Eide said.
When I came here, there was a two-month vacuum between a departure of my predecessor and my arrival.
Ban has begun searching for a replacement, according to U.N. officials.
The officials say he has been considering Staffan di Mistura, a Swedish-Italian national who recently headed the U.N. mission in Baghdad, and Jean-Marie Guéhenno, a Frenchman who previously led U.N. peacekeeping operations.
Eide's standing in Afghanistan was tested after his former deputy, Peter W. Galbraith, accused him in September of favoring President Hamid Karzai in the country's presidential vote and of covering up evidence of massive electoral fraud.
Eide denied the allegations, but he said the accusations by Galbraith -- who was fired -- "certainly damaged the mission, because there was already a great degree of skepticism with regard to international interference" in the election.
Eide said he proposed the appointment of a senior civilian representative to coordinate relief efforts by the U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan.
He also urged the U.N. leadership to allow his successor to hire more staff from the United States and other Western countries that donate to the Afghan mission, saying it would increase their confidence that their money is being properly spent.
Eide expressed frustration with the limitations on his powers in Afghanistan, saying that cumbersome U.N. hiring regulations undercut his ability to bring in talent.
The U.N. rules are such that I have only been able to recruit a single person since May, he said.
That is catastrophic and can't continue.
Gates: Iran to face additional sanctions
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Friday that world powers will soon impose "significant additional sanctions" on Iran over its failure to engage in talks on its nuclear ambitions.
Gates, speaking to a group of about 300 U.S. troops in northern Iraq during a week-long tour of war zones in Afghanistan and Iraq, played down the prospect of military action against the Islamic republic.
There are no good options in Iran, he said, in response to a query from a soldier about the likelihood of such a development. ¨
One of the things that weighs on me is that if we have learned anything from Iraq over the past six years, [it] is the inherent unpredictability of war.
The Obama administration is considering a package of sanctions that would target Iran's military and political elite, but Gates signaled that some of the sanctions could also affect ordinary Iranians.
He said that "a package of incentives and disincentives" would be needed "to persuade the Iranian government that they would actually be less secure with nuclear weapons" because "their people will suffer enormously" from sanctions.
In a statement Friday by White House spokesman Robert Gibbs, the administration joined European leaders in warning that Iran will face "credible" consequences if it does not bring its nuclear program into full compliance with the U.N. Security Council and its nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Iran insists that it wants to develop nuclear expertise only for peaceful purposes.
In talks in Geneva on Oct. 1, it indicated that it would return to talks on restraining its nuclear program and agree to give up a substantial portion of its stockpile of enriched uranium in exchange for desperately needed fuel for a medical research reactor.
The administration has pushed for such an agreement as a way to build confidence between the two sides and to buy time for negotiations.
But since then, Iran appears to have walked away from the tentative deals -- in part, experts say, because the Iranian leadership is divided over whether to engage with the United States.
Frankly, Iran's stiffing the international community on some of the proposals that they actually agreed to at the beginning of October, I think, has brought the international community, including the Russians and the Chinese, together in a way that they have not been in terms of significant additional sanctions on the Iranians, Gates said.
President Obama has set a Dec. 31 deadline for Iran to respond to the proposals before he turns to reviewing other options, including pursuing what Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton once called "crippling sanctions."
In a statement issued in New York, Iran's mission to the United Nations denounced what it called "baseless and unfounded allegations" Thursday by some Security Council members about Iran's nuclear activities and said it is willing to continue talks with the United States and five other world powers "in order to achieve an appropriate, long-term solution."
Gates, who was to return to Washington late Friday, met in the morning with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki before flying to Iraq's oil-rich Kurdish region for meetings with troops in Kirkuk and Kurdish officials in Irbil.
Tensions remain high between the Kurds and Iraq's Arab majority, particularly over boundaries, property rights and revenue-sharing.
Gates urged both sides to reduce the potential for conflict to prevent any delays in U.S. plans to cut the number of American troops from 115,000 to 50,000 by the end of August.
Gates also sought to allay Kurdish anxiety about the pending drawdown. U.S. officials quoted Gates as telling Massoud Barzani, president of the Kurdistan Regional Government: "We will preserve your security, prosperity and autonomy within a unified Iraq.
We will not abandon you."
In aging China, a change of course
Wang Weijia and her husband grew up surrounded by propaganda posters lecturing them that "Mother Earth is too tired to sustain more children" and "One more baby means one more tomb."
They learned the lesson so well that when Shanghai government officials, alarmed by their city's low birthrate and aging population, abruptly changed course this summer and began encouraging young couples to have more than one child, their reaction was instant and firm: No way.
We have already given all our time and energy for just one child.
We have none left for a second, said Wang, 31, a human resources administrator with an 8-month-old son.
More than 30 years after China's one-child policy was introduced, creating two generations of notoriously chubby, spoiled only children affectionately nicknamed "little emperors," a population crisis is looming in the country.
The average birthrate has plummeted to 1.8 children per couple as compared with six when the policy went into effect, according to the U.N.
Population Division, while the number of residents 60 and older is predicted to explode from 16.7 percent of the population in 2020 to 31.1 percent by 2050. That is far above the global average of about 20 percent.
The imbalance is worse in wealthy coastal cities with highly educated populations, such as Shanghai.
Last year, people 60 and older accounted for almost 22 percent of Shanghai's registered residents, while the birthrate was less than one child per couple.
Xie Lingli, director of the Shanghai Municipal Population and Family Planning Commission, has said that fertile couples need to have babies to "help reduce the proportion of the aging population and alleviate a workforce shortage in the future."
Shanghai is about to be "as old -- not as rich, though -- as developed countries such as Japan and Sweden," she said.
A gradual easing
Written into the country's constitution in 1978, China's one-child policy is arguably the most controversial mandate introduced by the ruling Communist Party to date.
Couples who violate the policy face enormous fines -- up to three times their annual salary in some areas -- and discrimination at work.
Chinese officials have credited the policy with helping the country avoid critical strain on its natural resources, while human rights advocates have denounced abuses in the enforcement of the policy.
In rural areas, some officials have forced women pregnant with a second child to undergo abortions.
In addition, many couples have had sex-selective abortions, leading to an unnaturally high male-to-female ratio.
In recent years, population officials have gradually softened their stance on the one-child policy.
In 2004, they allowed for more exceptions to the rule -- including urban residents, members of ethnic minorities and cases in which both husband and wife are only children -- and in 2007, they toned down many of their hard-line slogans.
Qiao Xiaochun, a professor at the Institute of Population Research at Peking University, said central government officials have recently been debating even more radical changes, such as allowing couples to have two children if one partner is an only child.
In July, Shanghai became the first Chinese city to launch an aggressive campaign to encourage more births.
Almost overnight, posters directing families to have only one child were replaced by copies of regulations detailing who would be eligible to have a second child and how to apply for a permit.
The city government dispatched family planning officials and volunteers to meet with couples in their homes and slip leaflets under doors.
It has also pledged to provide emotional and financial counseling to those electing to have more than one child.
The response has been underwhelming, family planning officials say.
Disappointing response
Although officials in one rural town on the outskirts of Shanghai say they saw an uptick in applications from couples wanting a second child after the campaign was launched, the more urban districts report no change.
Huinan township, with a population of 115,000, for instance, is still receiving just four to five applications a month.
Disappointed Shanghai officials say that, despite the campaign, the number of births in the city in 2010 is still expected to be only about 165,000 -- slightly higher than in 2009 but lower than in 2008.
Feng Juying, head of the family planning committee in Shanghai's Caolu township, said financial considerations are probably the main reason many people don't want more children.
They want to give the best to their first, she said.
Yang Jiawei, 27, and his wife, Liu Juanjuan, 26, said they would love to have two children and are legally allowed to do so.
But like many Chinese, they have only the scant medical and life insurance provided by the government.
Without a social safety net, they say, the choice would be irresponsible.
People in the West wrongly see the one-child policy as a rights issue, said Yang, a construction engineer whose wife is seven months pregnant with the couple's first child.
Yes, we are being robbed of the chance to have more than one child.
But the problem is not just some policy.
It is money.
Other couples cite psychological reasons for hesitating.
Wang, the human resources administrator, said she wants an only child because she was one herself: "We were at the center of our families and used to everyone taking care of us.
We are not used to taking care of and don't really want to take care of others."
Chen Zijian, a 42-year-old who owns a translation company, put it more bluntly.
For the dual-career, middle-class parents who are bringing the birthrate down, he said, it's about being successful enough to be selfish.
Today's 20- and 30-somethings grew up seeing their parents struggle during the early days of China's experiment with capitalism and don't want that kind of life for themselves, he said.
Even one child makes huge demands on parents' time, he said.
A mother has to give up at least two years of her social life.
Then there are the space issues -- "You have to remodel your apartment" -- and the strategizing -- "You have to have a résumé ready by the time the child is 9 months old for the best preschools."
Most of his friends are willing to deal with this once, Chen said, but not twice.
Ours is the first generation with higher living standards, he said.
We do not want to make too many sacrifices.
U.N. group drafts plan to reduce emissions
The U.N.-sponsored climate conference -- characterized so far by unruly posturing and mutual recriminations -- gained renewed focus Friday with the release of a document outlining ambitious greenhouse-gas reductions over the next 40 years, with industrialized nations shouldering most of the burden in the near term.
The text, which could provide the basis for a final political deal to regulate greenhouse gases, highlighted the remaining obstacles as much as it illuminated a path forward.
But it was seen as an important advance in a negotiation that is running out of time, with more than 100 world leaders arriving in Copenhagen next week.
Forged by a U.N. ad-hoc working group, the text is silent on how much money rich countries would give poor ones to cope with global warming over the short and long term.
And it provides a range of options for the key questions, including how developed and major emerging economies would cut their carbon output, and what would be the upper limit of global temperature rise that policymakers would be willing to tolerate.
It gives a lot of flexibility to the process, said John Coequyt, senior Washington representative for the Sierra Club.
Michael Zammit Cutajar, who drafted the six-page document, boiled down a 180-page negotiation text to focus on what the U.N.'s top climate official, Yvo de Boer, described as "the big picture."
It shows the outlines for a possible deal, in which industrial nations would collectively cut their emissions by 2020 by 25 to 45 percent compared with 1990 levels, while major developing countries would reduce theirs during the same period by 15 to 30 percent.
Together, the countries would cut emissions between 50 and 95 percent by 2050.
The European Union gave the talks a boost as well on Friday by pledging to provide $3.6 billion a year over the next three years to help poorer countries adapt to the impact of climate change -- from coping with flood and drought to avoiding deforestation.
Still, Friday featured the same sort of verbal fireworks that have dominated the talks for the past week.
U.S. special climate envoy Todd Stern rejected language requiring binding cuts of greenhouse-gas emissions for industrialized countries compared with voluntary ones by major emerging economies if they were not funded by the developed world.
The move signaled that the Obama administration is taking a harder line with China than Bush administration officials did just two years ago.
The United States is not going to do a deal without the major developing countries stepping up and taking action, said Stern, who also complained that the text did not do enough to make sure the cuts could be verified by outside observers.
Stern made his comments an hour after Chinese vice foreign minister He Yafei said America's top climate negotiator was either lacking "common sense" or being "extremely irresponsible" for saying earlier in the week that the United States would not help China financially to cope with global warming.
With the future economic trajectory of the world's major powers at stake, fault lines have erupted both within the developing world and between the industrial world and emerging economies.
The current battle is as much about saving individual economies as saving the planet, with China and the United States feuding over their respective obligations while poorer nations insist that the world's two dozen most influential countries are ignoring the scientific imperative to take bolder action.
Ricardo Ulate, a Costa Rican delegate, said it's not surprising that the major powers are fighting over who should bear the costs for curbing greenhouse gases, even as vulnerable countries have become more aggressive in seeking to hold the big emitters accountable for their actions.
This is clearly a game where a new economic hegemony is being developed, said Ulate, who also serves as the regional Mexico and Central America climate change adviser for Conservation International.
Some of the countries most vulnerable to the impact of climate change indicated they would continue to push for a legally binding treaty in Copenhagen, although most of the major participants say the talks will produce a political deal at best.
The Alliance of Small Island States, which has 43 members, produced a 24-page draft treaty proposal early Friday morning.
Artur Runge-Metzger, who heads international climate negotiations on behalf of the European Commission, said the push by small island nations has "put political pressure on the entire political process," in part because they are now unified and demanding action from emerging economies such as China and India.
The talks took on new urgency as delegates focused on the fact that they must resolve most of the outstanding issues before the heads of government arrive to strike a deal.
High-level officials such as Indian environment minister Jairam Ramesh and the Chinese vice minister stepped off planes and raced through the Bella Center's halls to closed-door meetings and news conferences so they could stake out claims that will be arbitrated over the next week.
The sheer sprawl of the gathering -- where 13,000 people move in and out of the convention center each day, guitar-playing activists put on nightly shows mocking the countries they think are selling out, and draft proposals are passed hand-to-hand on paper rather than via e-mail -- poses a challenge.
The intensity is only building: nearly all of the key ministers are now here, and as early as Wednesday 60 heads of government will be in Copenhagen.
We're getting into the big leagues, said Carlos Manuel Rodriguez, vice president for global policy at Conservation International.
The heavyweights are coming.
Britain’s first 140mph train to redefine that Monday feeling
At 5.13 on Monday morning a whistle will pierce the darkness to signal a train departure that marks a revolution for travel in Britain.
The first high-speed commuter train in the country will reach 140mph as it streaks from Ashford, Kent, to London St Pancras, covering the 58 miles in 38 minutes.
Lord Adonis, the Transport Secretary, will then be joined by Dame Kelly Holmes aboard the first Javelin commuter service out of London.
He hopes that the new service will eventually plug Britain into an international network of fast, reliable trains and connect the great conurbations of the Midlands, the North and Scotland to London.
Neglected backwaters would become thriving commuter towns, business travel times would be slashed and the shift from aircraft and cars to the railway would reduce national carbon emissions as well as easing congestion on the roads.
In theory, the three main political parties buy into this vision.
But the tens of billions of pounds needed to build a new national rail network, the inevitable planning battle and fears of environmental harm may yet put the brakes on Britain’s high-speed lines.
High Speed Two (HS2), a company created in January to provide the Government with a feasibility study, will hand its report to Lord Adonis on December 30, The Times has learnt.
It will provide him with a detailed route map of the next planned stage of the high-speed network.
The new line linking London to the West Midlands will be drawn to within five metres in urban areas and sites where the environmental impact may be contentious.
In open country, the plan will be drafted to within 25 metres of a final route.
HS2 is also expected to set out three options for a wider high-speed network running north.
Lord Adonis will respond in the spring.
The favoured option being put forward is a Y-shaped configuration in which a single high-speed line would run up to the West Midlands.
The line would split at or near Birmingham, with one branch running west of the Pennines to Manchester and Scotland and another running northeast to Sheffield, Leeds and Newcastle upon Tyne.
A single line would run into Scotland.
"It looks like it is going to be the best-performing option," a railway insider said.
Once complete, journey times between London and Edinburgh would be cut to 2 hours 40 minutes.
The first leg, which would not open before 2025, would allow passengers to travel between London and Birmingham in 49 minutes, compared with just over an hour at present.
The proposals would allow trains to travel at 250mph, making the British network the fastest in Europe.
The initial track is being designed to take trains 400m in length capable of carrying 1,100 people.
As many as 18 could operate each hour on a London-Birmingham line.
That means that a London terminal capable of handling 20,000 passengers an hour would be needed.
Given space constraints in the capital, it is expected that an existing station would be expanded to accommodate the high-speed network.
Rail industry experts say that only St Pancras International or Euston offer that potential.
Lord Adonis will announce whether or not he thinks the scheme should proceed, but lengthy public consultation and planning procedures mean that a final decision would not be made until after a general election.
Even if he does put the wheels in motion, the network would have to be built in sections.
Trains would at first be forced to run off high-speed lines on to the existing rails north of Birmingham, keeping journey times between London and Scotland above three hours.
That is seen as the crucial tipping point needed to ensure a switch from planes to trains, a benchmark for the rail revolution.
Taxpayers meet mortgage on Tory's £75,000 orangery
Alan Duncan, the frontbench Tory MP, charged the taxpayer thousands of pounds a year towards the cost of an orangery he built at his constituency home.
The party’s prisons spokesman, who was demoted by David Cameron for complaining that MPs were living "on rations", increased his mortgage by £75,000 to build an oak-framed extension to his second home in Rutland.
He was allowed to charge the extra interest, totalling hundreds of pounds a month, to the taxpayer.
The Commons authorities approved the claims at the time and they have not been queried by Sir Thomas Legg, who is conducting a review of members’ expenses. Last night Mr Duncan said the claims "couldn’t be cleaner or simpler".
Mr Duncan, one of the richest Members of Parliament, owns a two-storey house in a village in his Rutland and Melton constituency.
Houses near by have sold for almost a million pounds.
The ground floor comprises a kitchen, living room and dining room, but the fees office agreed that Mr Duncan needed more space.
Last year he added a conservatory to the house, described in plans as an "orangery".
Neighbours described it as a "glasshouse for entertaining".
Mr Duncan was not required to make any reference to the increased borrowing during a recent investigation by the Commons’ Standards and Privileges Committee into his previous mortgage arangements.
The committee cleared him last month of breaching the rules after an investigation into his expenses.
In 2004 Mr Duncan changed the legal security for a £271,406 mortgage from his London property to his constituency home, which he had bought in 1991, the year before he became an MP.
Documents released this week show that Mr Duncan was claiming about £1,400 a month in mortgage interest until March last year.
In April, his claims increased to more than £1,800 a month.
The interest rate on Mr Duncan’s RBS mortgage did not change in that time, suggesting that all the increase was to fund the £75,000 borrowing.
The RBS standard variable mortgage rate went down from 7.94 per cent in December 2007 to 4 per cent in March this year, where it remains.
The latest document release by the Commons authorities show that Mr Duncan was continuing to claim £1,250 a month this May.
Mr Duncan lost his job as Shadow Leader of the House in September after an undercover reporter filmed him saying that MPs had to survive "on rations" after the expenses scandal.
"Basically, it’s being nationalised, you have to live on rations and are treated like s**t."
He said: "I spend my money on my garden and claim a tiny fraction based on what is proper.
And I could claim the whole bloody lot, but I don’t."
The MP, a millionaire from his former career as an oil trader, was first challenged over his expenses in May when it emerged that he had claimed thousands of pounds for his garden, before agreeing with the fees office that this "could be considered excessive".
An activist dug a hole in the shape of a pound sign in Mr Duncan’s lawn in protest after it was revealed that he claimed £4,000 over three years.
Asked about the increased mortgage last night, Mr Duncan said: "It was for capital improvements approved both by the fees office and subsequently by Legg."
He added: "There is no issue of ducking and weaving or pushing the rules or anything.
It is absolutely straight down the line, within the rules, authorised and everything.
It just couldn’t in many ways be cleaner or simpler."
Come all ye faithful to see Brighton’s beach hut Advent calendar
Beach huts in Brighton have found a new lease of life for the winter months as an interactive Advent calendar.
Beyond, an alternative church group that encourages spiritual exploration through creativity, invited 24 owners to decorate their huts for each day in December, using Christmas carols as their theme.
The event started on December 1, with visitors allowed to view the latest hut from 5.30pm to 6.30pm each day, with mince pies and mulled wine laid on for free.
Carols chosen so far include I Saw Three Ships, O Come, O Come, Emmanuel and The First Noël, where the hut features the work of Janette Tozer, a local artist.
Martin Poole, 50, a TV marketing assistant from Hove, is a non-stipendiary clergyman within the Chichester diocese and the leader of Beyond.
He said: "We want to make religion more relevant to people in a post-Christendom society.
"Why do we as a Church expect people to come to a strange old building? It’s my feeling the Church should come to the people and celebrate in exciting ways.
"The idea of the beach hut Advent calendar began just as a conversation with some friends over dinner.
Brighton is such a fantastically creative and vibrant place and we are trying to try and represent that through spirituality."
The democratic routine
Support for democracy in Latin America continues to edge up, as does backing for private enterprise.
Crime has become a bigger worry than unemployment.
And Brazil is seen as more influential than the United States across much of the region.
Those are some of the findings of the latest Latinobarómetro poll taken in 18 countries and published exclusively by The Economist.
Because the poll has been taken regularly since 1995, it tracks changes in attitude across the region.
Two related things stand out in the results of this year's poll, taken in September and early October.
The first is Latin America's fairly sunny mood.
The second is the increasing stability of attitudes towards democracy and its core institutions.
Support for democracy has risen noticeably in several countries on the Pacific rim of South America (see table 1).
For example in Peru, where economic growth has averaged 6% a year since 2002, support for democracy has risen from a low of 40% in 2005 to 61% this year.
It also rose in Mexico, where the economy has recovered after suffering a big drop in output last year.
But only around half of respondents in Mexico and Brazil, the region's two most populous countries, are convinced democrats, which drags down the regional average (see chart 2).
Some 44% of respondents across the region pronounced themselves satisfied with how their country's democracy works in practice, the same figure as last year but a big increase on the 25% in 2001 (chart 3).
Some 34% said they had confidence in their country's Congress and 45% in their government, the same as last year in both cases but up sharply from 2003 (17% and 24% respectively).
A decade ago economic woes in Latin America undermined support for democracy.
That it has held up during the world financial crisis is probably because many Latin American countries suffered only a brief recession and have enjoyed a strong recovery.
In addition, a stronger social safety net has helped to shield the poor.
(The United Nations' Economic Commission for Latin America reported this week that the proportion of Latin Americans living in poverty rose only marginally in 2009 and has fallen again this year, to 32%.)
But the mood varies widely from country to country (see chart 4).
Brazil's strong economic performance and the popularity of its outgoing president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, is reflected in a widely shared sense of progress.
That is scarcer in Mexico and Central America, where the recession was more severe and violent crime has worsened.
For only the second time since the polls began, more respondents across Latin America as a whole cite crime, rather than unemployment, as the most important problem facing their country (see chart 5).
Some 31% say that either they or a close relative have been victims of crime over the past year, but that is down from 38% last year and is the lowest figure since 1995.
A more robust economic performance is reflected in rising support for private enterprise and the market economy: some 71% of respondents across the region say that private enterprise is indispensable for development, up from 56% in 2007 (see chart 6).
Some 58% agree that the market economy is the only system that will make their country developed, up from 47% last year.
Interestingly, 62% of respondents in Venezuela hold that view (and 80% there back private enterprise) even though their left-wing president, Hugo Chávez, is expropriating many private companies.
Brazil is the country which exercises most leadership in the region, mentioned by 19% of respondents (up from 18% last year), followed by the United States (9%, unchanged from last year) and Venezuela (9%, down from 11% last year).
But the United States is seen as the most influential country by respondents in Mexico and much of Central America, whereas Venezuela enjoys that distinction in Ecuador, the Dominican Republic and Nicaragua.
A vote rubbished
Nobody expected Haiti's general election on November 28th to be perfect.
But it was far worse than the outsiders who are trying to help the stricken country feared.
It featured stuffed ballot boxes and repeat voting, ballot slips scattered in gutters, trashed polling stations and intimidation.
Polling stations opened hours late.
Many Haitians, including lots displaced by January's earthquake, roamed around trying to find out where to vote.
Some of them eventually gave up.
A dozen presidential candidates, including several presumed front-runners, cried fraud and called for the election's annulment.
Protests, some of them violent, flared across the country.
Nevertheless, Edmond Mulet, the United Nations' top official in Haiti, declared it "a fairly good election in many ways."
Observers from the Organisation of American States and the Caribbean Community said cautiously that they did "not believe these irregularities, serious as they were, necessarily invalidated the process."
In other words, the show goes on.
The electoral authority, which opponents claim is beholden to René Préval, the unpopular outgoing president and his candidate, Jude Célestin, is due to announce preliminary results on December 7th.
The expected run-off is scheduled for January.
All hope in the election is not lost.
The two leading opposition candidates, Michel Martelly, a rap musician, and Mirlande Manigat, a former first lady, have retreated from their initial call for the vote to be declared invalid.
But there may be trouble if Mr Célestin, who has little or no discernible support among voters, is declared by the electoral authority to have reached the run-off.
With a cholera epidemic raging, and more than 1m earthquake survivors still living in tents, there were fears that turnout would be low.
In the event, a lot of Haitians wanted to vote but were prevented from doing so by disorganisation.
Some 250,000 identity cards, required for voting, remained undistributed shortly before the election.
Much is at stake.
Aid donors see the election of a legitimate and popular government as an essential step in Haiti's reconstruction.
And so, it is clear, do Haitians themselves.
Tiptoeing to the centre
In the weeks since she was suddenly widowed, Cristina Fernández, Argentina's president, has benefited from a wave of public sympathy that has boosted her approval rating by 20 points, to over 50%, its highest level since she was elected in 2007.
Yet turning this into a successful campaign for a second term at an election next year may depend on whether or not the visibly grieving Ms Fernández abandons the intransigence of her late husband, predecessor and political partner, Néstor Kirchner.
And on that the signs are mixed.
Mr Kirchner, who continued to handle economic policy even after his wife succeeded him as president, was in the habit of drawing up budgets which underestimated tax revenues, economic growth and inflation.
That allowed the first couple to spend the extra revenues at will.
On paper Ms Fernández's government lost its majority in Congress last year.
But the opposition is divided, and it was thrown further into disarray by Mr Kirchner's death of a heart attack on October 27th.
Some dissident members of the ruling Peronist movement have rallied to Ms Fernández.
But after chaotic sessions (in which a parliamentarian punched another in the face, and others accused the government of bribery), Congress failed to approve the 2011 budget.
"I'm not going to argue," said the president.
The 2010 budget will now apply next year, giving the president even more room to spend at will.
The economy is overheating wildly: it is likely to grow by up to 9% this year.
The official inflation rate now stands at 11.1%, but many private estimates - and trade-union wage demands - put the figure close to 30%.
Mr Kirchner, who took office in 2003 when Argentina was scarred by economic collapse, made growth and poverty reduction, rather than controlling inflation, his priorities.
He refused to deal with the IMF, harassed the private sector and purged INDEC, the statistics agency, which proceeded to doctor official inflation statistics.
Might Ms Fernández now moderate these policies?
She has called for talks between private business and union leaders.
And her officials are saying that they want to limit wage increases next year to 18%.
The economy has been buoyed by high world prices for Argentina's farm exports.
But inflation has eroded the boost to growth provided by a big devaluation in 2002.
That may be why Ms Fernández is showing signs of wanting to restore Argentina's financial ties to the rest of the world.
Earlier this year the government struck a deal with bondholders who had refused an earlier forced restructuring of debt on which Argentina defaulted in 2001.
Now Ms Fernández seems to be edging towards an agreement with creditor governments grouped in the Paris Club, to which it owes some $6.7 billion.
The Kirchners always insisted this could not involve oversight by the IMF, as is customary.
But last month Amado Boudou, the economy minister, announced that the fund will provide "technical assistance" to design a new national consumer-price index, which looks like a prelude to cleaning up INDEC.
It is not clear whether Ms Fernández wants to remain in politics beyond the end of her term now that her husband is no longer at her side.
If she does, she needs to win the support of the middle class, much of which has tired of kirchnerismo.
By the time Argentines return from their summer holidays in March, the wave of sympathy for her will have ebbed.
If she wants to win another election she will have to decide whether or not quietly to repudiate many of her husband's policies.
Half a cheer for China
Taiwan's voters are inching towards a kind of closer union with the mainland.
What does Taiwan think of its big brother across the strait?
More than 7.5m voters turned out on November 27th, 70% of those eligible, to elect mayors and city councillors in five urban districts, in what is seen as a broad assessment of the president, Ma Ying-jeou.
Mr Ma himself has become a surrogate for feelings about the mainland, having forged groundbreaking business links, including a partial free-trade pact, in the biggest rearrangement of relations with China proper since 1949.
Mr Ma passed the test, but only just.
Although his Kuomintang party (KMT) ended up winning three of the five mayoralties, it failed to win a majority of the votes.
Instead, the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), which has leant towards fuller independence for Taiwan, won nearly 50% of all votes to the KMT's 45%.
Had this been a presidential poll, Mr Ma would be in trouble.
Since he was elected two years ago his party's share of the vote has fallen by perhaps 8%.
For the first time, the DPP drew even with the KMT in the city councils.
The election saw most of the staples of Taiwanese elections, including rowdy campaign trucks and flag-waving mass rallies with skimpily clad dancing girls.
It even saw the obligatory mysterious assassination attempt.
Sean Lien, son of Lien Chan, the KMT's honorary chairman, was stumping for a KMT candidate on the eve of the election.
A man from the crowd shot the young Mr Lien clean through the face, wounding him and killing a bystander.
Bizarrely, it has not been determined whether the gunman intended to harm Mr Lien or to settle a dispute with the candidate.
Either way, says Tsai Ing-wen, the leader of the DPP, the shooting affected the election, casting suspicion on the DPP and driving voters towards the KMT.
Perhaps the only big winner from the campaign was China.
It was striking how the issue of the mainland itself was absent.
Instead candidates jousted over plans for public housing and job creation.
Taiwan usually enjoys its de facto independence and loathes China's military threat.
So, the KMT tends to avoid parading its ties to the government in Beijing.
But this time the DPP also refrained from whipping up anti-China sentiment.
It is responding to a new awareness that Chinese business is essential to Taiwan's economic survival.
Mr Ma, for his part, claimed confirmation that his China policy is acceptable to the Taiwanese majority.
The government in Beijing can be expected to continue supplying commercial sweeteners, in line with its strategy for luring Taiwan back to the fold.
China wasted no time sending a negotiator to Taipei to arrange for a summit on investment protection and medical co-operation.
Certainly, it would like to see political integration too, but first things first.
Better to wait till after the 2012 presidential election for that.
The DPP has anyway reinvented itself.
Two years ago it was at a low point: its former leader, Chen Shui-bian, had been sent to jail on charges of corruption.
President in 2000-08, he was a firebrand for explicit independence.
But under the leadership of Ms Tsai, a new generation of moderates has emerged and the DPP is working hard to attract professionals and youths.
Ms Tsai has been hailed as a DPP candidate for the presidency, as has Su Tseng-chang, who served under Mr Chen.
Their party is now doing its best to show that it too can engage with Beijing.
Ms Tsai announced plans for a think-tank to act as a point of contact between the DPP and China, provided their talks can be held without preconditions.
Ms Tsai tells the Taiwanese public that her party presents a "trustworthy alternative" to Mr Ma's hasty approach to China.
Mr Chen seems infuriated by the shift.
In a statement issued from his cell he said that the DPP's candidates would have fared better if they had insisted that Taiwan is a separate country.
He even ordered Mr Su, a pragmatist, not to run for the presidency.
Even without Mr Chen's interference, the DPP will struggle to choose between its potential candidates.
The KMT is due for soul-searching of its own.
Mr Ma's ratings have been poor, despite breakneck economic growth; KMT candidates have not wanted to campaign with him.
His unpopularity seems to be owing largely to unemployment and the widening gap between rich and poor.
A KMT spokesman says it will reshuffle its cabinet as well as its local branches.
The DPP's strong showing suggests that Taiwan's support for rapprochement is limited.
At the same time most Taiwanese see the economic integration with China as inevitable.
According to Antonio Chiang, a prominent columnist, "the point of no return has already passed."
Grammy nominations: Jazz singer Esperanza Spalding is a surprise pick in best new artist category
Perform at the request of a president, and people are bound to take notice.
Esperanza Spalding, the 26-year-old jazz bassist and singer hand-picked by President Obama to perform at his Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in 2009, marked one of the Grammys' surprises this year with a high-profile nomination in the best new artist category.
Considering that Spalding has been a celebrated figure on the jazz scene since her 2008 album, "Esperanza," the nomination is a bit of a head-scratcher, but it is consistent with the Grammys' rules of an artist not releasing more than three albums before the recording that "establishes the public identity of that artist."
Her ambitious 2010 album, "Chamber Music Society," certainly marked a step forward, and given her airily inviting vocal style and a deft hand with pop, funk and Latin influences, it's possible to draw at least a dotted line to Spalding from Norah Jones' runaway success in 2003, the closest equivalent to Grammy voters looking toward jazz's neighborhood in this category in recent years.
Elsewhere Grammy voters rightly honored the Vijay Iyer Trio's "Historicity" in the instrumental album category, an invigorating thrill-ride of a record that was a critical favorite last year.
Among those Iyer will be competing against include veteran saxophonist James Moody's "Moody 4B" and keyboardist John Beasley's "Positootly."
Trombone Shorty, a raucous New Orleans favorite and frequent guest on HBO's "Treme," was honored in the contemporary jazz category, which otherwise tilts heavily toward fusion with nods toward albums by Stanley Clarke, John McLaughlin and Jeff Lorber.
The wild, steampunk-informed Darcy James Argue's Secret Society earned some well-deserved recognition in the large ensemble category, competing against the Billy Childs Ensemble's rich chamber-jazz and the ever-adventurous Dave Holland, whose octet's live album "Pathways" was a fine example of the bassist's democratic hand as a bandleader.
Grammy Awards nominations: Michael Daugherty, Steve Mackey lead classical categories
The classical nominations for the 53rd annual Grammy Awards feature a sprawling mix of musicians and composers from around the world.
Leading the nominations are Michael Daugherty's "Deus Ex Machina," for piano and orchestra, with five nods, and Steve Mackey's "Dreamhouse," an eclectic orchestral work, with three nods.
Among the nominees with ties to Southern California is Estonian composer Arvo Pärt for his Symphony No. 4, "Los Angeles," a piece that was commissioned by the Los Angeles Philharmonic and debuted at Walt Disney Concert Hall in 2009.
L.A.-based composer Avner Dorman's Mandolin Concerto is also up for an award.
Classical nominations are spread over 13 categories covering orchestral, operatic, choral and solo recordings.
A category for classical producer of the year features five nominees - Blanton Alspaugh, David Frost, Tim Handley, Marina and Victor Ledin and James Mallinson.
The nominations for classical album are Bruckner's Symphonies No. 3 and 4 from the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra; Daugherty's "Deus Ex Machina" and "Metropolis Symphony" from the Nashville Symphony Orchestra; Steven Mackey's "Dreamhouse" from the Boston Modern Orchestra Project and Synergy Vocals; "Sacrificium - the Art of the Castrati" featuring various artists; and Verdi's "Requiem" from the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and Chorus.
In the opera category, the nominees are Berg's "Lulu" from the Orchestra of the Royal Opera House; Adolf Hasse's "Marc Antonio e Cleopatra" from Ars Lyrica Houston; Kaija Saariaho's "L'Amour de Loin" from Deutsches Symphonie-Orchester Berlin; Rodion Shchedrin's "The Enchanted Wanderer" from the Orchestra and Chorus of the Mariinsky Theatre; and Arthur Sullivan's "Ivanhoe" from the BBC National Orchestra of Wales.
Composers who are up for Grammys for contemporary composition include Pärt for Symphony No. 4, Daugherty for "Deus Ex Machina," Hans Werner Henze for "Appassionatamente Plus," Magnus Lindberg for "Graffiti" and Shchedrin for "The Enchanted Wanderer."
Pärt's Symphony No. 4 had its premiere at Disney Hall in January 2009 in a performance that was recorded by the L.A. Philharmonic, conducted by Esa-Pekka Salonen.
The approximately 30-minute piece is dubbed "Los Angeles" and is dedicated to former oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, who is imprisoned in Russia.
Dorman's "Mandolin Concerto" was nominated for instrumental soloist performance with orchestra.
The L.A. composer said that he wrote the 15-minute piece specifically for mandolin performer Avi Avital, who performed the concerto with the New York-based Metropolis Ensemble.
"I wrote it using Middle Eastern sounds and a lot of North African scales and rhythms," said Dorman in a phone interview.
Conductor Pierre Boulez, 85, received a nomination in the category of orchestral performance, for leading the Chicago Symphony in a recording of works by Stravinsky.
Instrumental soloists who received nominations include pianists Nelson Freire and Marc-André Hamelin; organist Paul Jacobs; violinist Julia Fischer; and harpist Sarah Schuster Ericsson.
Vocal-soloist nominees were all female this year and included Anne Sofie Von Otter, Cecilia Bartoli, Lucia Duchonová, Vivica Genaux and Measha Brueggergosman.
In the classical crossover category, soprano Jessye Norman received a nomination for her recording "Roots - My Life, My Song."
Proposed Temecula mosque wins planning commission approval
A proposed mosque in Temecula has won the unanimous support of the local planning commission following more than five hours of often heated public testimony.
Critics assailed the project as promoting both terrorism and traffic tie-ups.
But commissioners ruled Wednesday night the new religious center complied with local laws and would be aesthetically impressive.
"Many good people came to support it - Christians, Jews, Bahais, you name it," said Hadi Nael, chair of the Islamic Center of Temecula Valley, speaking Thursday morning.
"I'm proud of that as an American citizen."
"It shows that justice prevails."
"The opposition is very minimal," he added.
"They just have very loud voices."
"We have beautiful people in this valley."
The meeting began at 6 p.m. and lasted until nearly midnight with most of the time taken up with people speaking for or against the center, about evenly divided, according to the Press-Enterprise.
The debate continued on the newspaper's website.
"There is no more America," wrote one commenter.
"It is another Planet of the Apes with Miss Liberty dead in the sand."
"America has fallen."
Planned Islamic centers also have sparked protests in other parts of the country, including near ground zero, the site of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in New York City.
In the Temecula Valley, Imam Mahmoud Harmoush has denounced violence.
His congregation of about 135 families has co-existed without incident in Riverside County for years but wanted a larger and better space than the warehouse it rented on a property shared with a manufacturer of water-filtration systems.
The new 24,943-square-foot mosque with Mediterranean-style architecture would include two minarets and rise as tall as 43 feet.
It would occupy a 4.32-acre site on Nicolas Road about two miles east of Chaparral High School.
Opponents can still appeal the project to the City Council.
Arsenic-tolerant microbe raises possibility of new types of life on Earth, or elsewhere
The discovery of a strange bacteria that can use arsenic as one of its nutrients widens the scope for finding new forms of life on Earth and possibly beyond.
While researchers discovered the unusual bacteria here on Earth, they say it shows that life has possibilities beyond the major elements that have been considered essential.
"This organism has dual capability."
"It can grow with either phosphorous or arsenic."
"That makes it very peculiar, though it falls short of being some form of truly 'alien' life," commented Paul C. W. Davies of Arizona State University, a co-author of the report appearing in Thursday's online edition of the journal Science.
Six major elements have long been considered essential for life - carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus and sulfur.
But the researchers found that the bacteria, discovered in Mono Lake, Calif., is able to continue to grow after substituting arsenic for phosphorous.
"It makes you wonder what else is possible," said Ariel D. Anbar of Arizona State University, a co-author of the report.
The find is important in the search for life beyond Earth because researchers need to be able to recognize life, to know what life looks like, Anbar said.
The study focuses on a microbe found on Earth.
However, the announcement of a news conference to discuss it, which did not disclose details of the find, generated widespread speculation on the Internet that the report would disclose the discovery of extraterrestrial life.
It didn't.
The discovery "does show that in other planetary environments organisms might be able to use other elements to drive biochemistry and that the 'standard' set of elements we think are absolutely necessary for life might not be so fixed," commented Charles Cockell, professor at the Planetary and Space Sciences Research Institute, Open University, in Milton Keynes, United Kingdom.
Cockell was not part of the research team.
"This work is novel because it shows the substitution of one element for another in fundamental biochemistry and biochemical structure," added Cockell.
It wasn't a chance discovery.
Felisa Wolfe-Simon of NASA's Astrobiology Institute, who led the study, targeted Mono Lake because it has high arsenic levels.
Arsenic and phosphorous are chemically similar, so she speculated that a microbe exposed to both might be able to substitute one for the other.
"Arsenic is toxic mainly because its chemical behavior is so similar to that of phosphorus."
"As a result, organisms have a hard time telling these elements apart."
"But arsenic is different enough that it doesn't work as well as phosphorus, so it gets in there and sort of gums up the works of our biochemical machinery," explained Anbar.
The researchers collected the bacteria known as GFAJ-1 and exposed it to increasing concentrations of arsenic, which it was able to adapt to and grow.
The microbe does grow better on phosphorous, but showing that it can live with arsenic instead raises the possibility that a life form using arsenic could occur naturally, either elsewhere on Earth or on another planet or moon where arsenic is more common.
Jamie S. Foster, an assistant professor of microbiology at the University of Florida, said the idea that arsenic could be substituted for phosphorous isn't new, but there has never been example where it was shown to work.
Arsenic was more common in the early times on Earth, she said, so researchers have speculated that early life forms might have used it.
"It does suggest that that there could be other ways to form life, not just how life formed on early Earth," said Foster, who was not part of Wolfe-Simon's research team.
The research was supported by NASA, the Department of Energy and the National Institutes of Health.
Remaining stolen show dogs found in Compton
The remaining two of four show dogs stolen from outside a Bellflower motel have been found, Los Angeles County Sheriff's officials said Thursday.
The four show dogs - two Akitas and two Pembroke Welsh corgis - vanished Tuesday when someone stole the 2006 Chevrolet Express van they had spent the night in outside a Bellflower Motel 6, authorities said.
Two of the canines were recovered Wednesday afternoon, and the remaining two were found late Wednesday evening, said to Steve Whitmore, a spokesman for the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department.
"The good news is that the dogs are fine," said Whitmore.
"They are in good condition."
"They have been returned to their rightful owners."
Whitmore declined to say precisely where the dogs were found, in what neighborhood, and the circumstances surrounding their discovery.
"There is an investigation going on."
"We don't want to say," Whitmore said.
"We are following leads."
The dogs owners, Kristina Rickard and David Peek, could not be reached for comment Thursday.
They were reunited with their two Akitas at a county-run animal shelter in Downey on Wednesday afternoon.
Sheriff's deputies found the van and the two dogs separately in Compton.
The Akitas - Trace, a 3-year-old male, and Didi, a 10-month-old female - were unharmed, authorities said.
But Bunny and Peter, the corgis Rickard and Peek planned to show at area competitions this week on behalf of the dogs' Japanese owners, remained missing until their discovering late Wednesday.
Peek and Rickard, who live in Redding, are in town for the AKC/Eukanuba National Championship in Long Beach this weekend, where they planned to show Trace.
The other dogs were expected to compete in other competitions scheduled in the days before the AKC/Eukanuba show, Peek told The Times on Wednesday.
Southern California is one stop on the couple's nearly month-long tour of dog shows.
On Monday night, Peek and Rickard checked into the motel.
They often stay in motels and park their van right outside their room window.
They brought three other dogs - a Boxer puppy, a Parson Russell terrier and a Brittany - which stayed with them in the motel room.
But they left the thick-furred Akitas and corgis in the van where it would be cooler.
They opened the windows a bit, so the dogs could get fresh air.
Peek and Rickard reported the van stolen at 6 a.m. Tuesday.
Peek had said they would offer a reward to anyone who could lead them to the corgis, which are implanted with microchips to identify them.
It was unclear Thursday whether an award would be given.
Lion ready to roar again as MGM restructuring gets final court go-ahead
After 18 months of turmoil and uncertainty, MGM has finally gotten a green light to start anew.
A New York federal bankruptcy judge on Thursday officially blessed the "pre-packaged" plan by creditors to wipe out about $5 billion in debt, clearing the way for the 86-year-old entertainment company to focus its efforts on producing and releasing movies and television shows.
With Thursday's ruling that the plan meets the requirements of the U.S. bankruptcy code, no more legal obstacles remain for MGM to relaunch under Spyglass Entertainment founders Gary Barber and Roger Birnbaum, who will become chief executives of what will be a slimmed-down studio.
The staff will drop to about 320 from over 400.
MGM will not actually emerge from Chapter 11 until JPMorgan Chase closes a planned $500-million loan facility to fund the new MGM's operations and productions.
It is currently being syndicated by the investment bank - which is itself kicking in $75 million - and is expected to be funded by mid-December.
The studio's restructuring process began in May 2009, when investment bank Moelis & Co. was hired to advise management on how to fix its finances as it was struggling to afford interest payments of $300 million per year.
That August, Chief Executive Harry Sloan was replaced by Stephen Cooper, a former CEO of Enron and a turnaround expert known for his work at Krispy Kreme Doughnuts.
Moelis' and Cooper's attempts to resolve MGM's financial woes and satisfy the studio's 140-plus creditors took much longer than expected.
After several months of discussions, the parties agreed in late 2009 to put the company up for sale.
However, the auction attracted few bidders and none willing to pay the $2 billion-plus that creditors were seeking.
By the spring of this year, it was back to the drawing board as the MGM team began working on a restructuring plan that, after months of debate and internal disagreements, was finally endorsed by creditors in late October.
When MGM officially emerges from bankruptcy in the coming weeks, Moelis and Cooper's firms will receive multimillion-dollar bonuses for their work.
Moelis & Co., which has already received $1.2 million, will get a $9.5-million payment.
Cooper's firms, which have been collecting $375,000 per month for their services running the company, will receive a $4-million "success fee."
Barber and Birnbaum plan to restart production at MGM, which released only one movie this year, and put together an annual slate of seven or eight films that will come out starting in 2012.
They also plan to co-finance two movies based on "The Hobbit," along with Warner Bros.
The studio needs to close a separate loan of between $265 million and $275 million to fund its portion of those two movies, which are to be directed by Peter Jackson.
Investor Carl Icahn, who owns about 18% of MGM's debt, had been seeking to arrange a merger of the studio with Lions Gate Entertainment, in which he is the largest shareholder.
However, recent talks between the two companies have not resulted in a deal.
Tech Toys to Keep Your Gift Budget in Balance
While the leading candidate for this year's most marvelous toy is the iPad, followed by, perhaps, a Microsoft Kinect video game system, both can put a significant dent in your gift budget.
Consider that for the price of one iPad, you can buy five $99 BMX bicycles, and that one Kinect game costs the same as 10 classic beaded jump ropes, or about 48 cans of Play-Doh.
But there are ways to keep your gift budget in balance.
I recently visited three national toy sellers - a Wal-Mart, a Toys "R" Us and a BJ's Wholesale Club - to see what electronic toys I could buy for less than $80.
It was immediately clear that Moore's Law has been at work; this year's technology toy is likely to have more power, while costing the same if not a bit less compared with last year's.
In addition, while there are generally fewer new toys with associated Web sites, two of the most well known of this type, Webkinz and Club Penguin, have more offerings.
And button-cell powered toys are increasing, as well as toys with rechargable batteries.
Here are some recommendations.
(All prices are from Toys "R" Us, except if otherwise noted.)
Sing-a-ma-jigs (Mattel, $13, for ages 3 and up) are guinea pig-sized plush toys that sing a note when you squeeze their bellies.
One squeeze equals one note, and a second squeeze starts building a song.
If you buy more than one, they'll sing in harmony.
Caution: Once you start squeezing, you can't stop.
For singing combined with dancing, Dance Star Mickey (Fisher-Price, $60, for ages 2 and up) is the best choice.
Borrowing on last year's Elmo Live technology, the 14-inch animatronic doll plays turn-taking games like Simon Says, and can moon walk, thanks to his innovative hinged feet with locking wheels.
Children testing the toy used Mickey as a dance instructor although their parents complained about the lack of a volume control.
If you're a child of the '80s, you may recall Alphie, one of the first computerized educational toys.
He's back, (Hasbro/Playskool, $40, for ages 3 and up), with a backpack full of quiz cards designed to turn a car ride into a session with a self-correcting, wisecracking workbook.
If you're leery of handing your child your smartphone, here are three stand-alone alternatives.
VTech's MobiGo ($60, for ages 3 to 8) is the cheapest and easiest to use, featuring a qwerty keyboard, although the games don't teach as effectively as the Leapster Explorer ($70, for ages 3 to 12), Leapfrog's first major overhaul of the Leapster line, with a newer, brighter screen.
Neither version is compatible with older cartridges.
Fisher-Price's iXL ($90, for ages 3 to 7) uses an iTunes-like system to deliver games and e-books, and has an SD card slot that makes it possible to display family photos.
Finally, Scrabble Flash ($30, Hasbro, for ages 8 and up) is a set of five blocks just larger than a book of matches, each with its own LED screen.
The goal is to make words by placing the blocks in a row before time runs out; it's great for an impromptu spelling contest.
Increasingly, toys have some sort of online connection.
Based on their presence in toy stores alone, the two largest are Webkinz and Club Penguin.
To buy your child an online pet in Club Penguin, for example, you can get a Disney Club Penguin 2" Mix 'N Match Figure Pack, $5, for ages 6 to 12) that includes a coin with a hidden code.
When you redeem the code online, your child is given enough credits in the Club Penguin store for any two items.
These might include roller skates or a pet Puffle toy.
Slightly larger than the bristle-end of your toothbrush, Hexbug Nano ($10, for ages 5 and up) is the latest in a line of button-cell powered micro-robots.
The faux bug moves quickly on 12 vibrating silicon legs, in random directions.
It is fun to make a maze out of blocks to see if it can find its way through.
It's durable, too.
Ours was able to drop off the kitchen table and even spent some time inside our dog's mouth.
Bringing a Softer Side to Policing in China
Like an urban drill sergeant, Tang Shenbin paced on a city square, sternly inspecting his nervous charges, issuing sotto voce commands with military authority.
He wanted the female members of chengguan - China's burly enforcers of urban order, feared and despised for their capricious crackdowns and penchant for violence - to convey a certain impression to a clutch of onlookers.
"Stand straight!"
"Look sharp!"
Show them, he whispered, "what pretty girls are like!"
Four barely-past-teenage girls in white gloves and identical olive jackets and pants snapped to attention.
Four pairs of black pumps lined up ruler-straight.
Four prim hats perched perfectly atop hair bound in blue and white striped bows.
"Personally, I think they are average-looking," Mr. Tang said, dismissively.
"Models are pretty."
More than one government has tried to brush up the image of China's urban inspectors.
One city mandated that all new recruits have a college degree.
Guangdong Province changed the gray-green uniforms to a supposedly more inviting blue.
Wuhan, in central China, substituted stare-downs for strong-arming: in 2009, one report stated, 50 officers encircled a wayward snack cart, glowering steadily for a half hour until the peddler packed up and left.
Xindu, an urban district of 680,000 in Chengdu, has chosen major image surgery.
Since 2003, the district has supplemented its urban street police with 13 women, specifically chosen for their looks, shapeliness and youth.
The idea is to give the rough-hewn police a softer, feminine side.
Unfortunately, even Scarlett Johansson might struggle to raise China's subterranean regard for these city squads.
And for good reason, critics would argue.
Unlike the police, these officers are authorized only to enforce city ordinances by imposing fines and other administrative penalties.
But the Chinese news media routinely portray a different reality.
In January 2008, Hubei Province inspectors beat a bystander to death after he used his cellphone to film them breaking up a protest against a waste dump.
Last year, a training manual for Beijing inspectors, pilfered and posted online, described how to effectively thrash offenders without drawing blood.
This year, a Shanghai watermelon peddler was left brain-damaged after a scuffle with five officers.
One violence-soaked video game, available for download online, features Chinese-trained inspectors who assault street vendors.
"Chengguan has scarred the government," China Daily, a national publication, lamented last year after yet another controversy over tactics.
The paper demanded a "truly thorough clean-up."
Skeptics say the approach here falls far short of that.
After the district advertised for eight new female recruits in October, an editorial in The Beijing Evening News questioned whether the women had actual duties or were simply scenic diversions.
The answer appears to be a little of both.
The district's advertisement called for female applicants 18 to 22 years old, with a good figure and "the five facial features in proper order."
They should be above-average height - taller than 1.6 meters or 5 feet, 2 ½ inches.
Retirement at age 26 is mandatory.
Officials said the job was physically too arduous for women over 25.
"Their image is the important thing," one unnamed district official told Rednet.com, a quasi-governmental Web site.
"First, the candidates' external qualities will determine if they make the cut, such as height, weight, facial features, etc."
Next comes temperament and "inner qualities."
Female chengguan are like flower vases, he said, adding, "Besides being vases, they will have other responsibilities."
Zheng Lihua, the deputy director of the district's city management bureau, is not eager to endorse that description.
But he noted that height requirements were standard in many Chinese job advertisements for both sexes.
So is the demand for orderly facial features.
Whether that means good-looking is a matter of debate among Chinese.
Certainly, the disabled or disfigured need not apply.
"We can't let a lame person or a hunchback come to serve here," Mr. Zheng said.
"His image would not be good."
Liu Yi, who patrols the Baoguang Square near a monastery, is 22, apple-cheeked with a finely curved mouth.
She does not consider the stress on her appearance to be sexist, she said.
"Do you think I look sexy in this uniform?" she asked with a wry look.
Said her dimpled co-worker, 21-year-old Xu Yang, "Our job is to present the city's image."
They do not object to their limited tenure either, they said, because they harbor career ambitions greater than simply shooing vendors into the alleyways where they are supposed to confine their business.
Every morning, the squad faces off against a dozen or so peddlers who dart around on foot or bicycle, trying to sell as many buns or bowls of tofu as possible before they are run off.
"Master Wang, you have to leave."
"We have told you many times!" said Ms. Xu as one vendor fled on foot, temporarily deserting his bicycle-drawn cart of noodle-fixings.
The officers describe their duties as more monotonous than strenuous.
"It is pretty much the same every day," said Huang Jing, 20, who studies marketing in her off hours.
"Very routine."
One reason is that female officers lack the power of their male counterparts to confiscate vendors' goods.
They can only threaten to report violators to their male supervisors.
That tends to shield them from the sudden public displays of animosity against officialdom that are common throughout China.
This year hundreds of citizens in Kunming, the Yunnan provincial capital, rioted after false rumors spread that chengguan officers had killed a vendor.
More than a dozen police or chengguan officers were injured in the nighttime episode; 14 government vehicles were overturned or set on fire.
Xindu has so far escaped such violence.
But calm is hardly guaranteed.
Just two blocks from placid Baoguang Square, where the female officers patrolled that morning, more than 50 people gathered on a street corner.
Officers had confiscated a motorcycle that was being repaired on the sidewalk instead of inside a shop, as regulations require.
The bike's owner was crying foul.
A 15-minute standoff ensued before the officers, grim-faced, elbowed their way to their vehicles and sped off with the motorcycle and its owner.
Li Xuedong, 40, a coordinator attached to the male squad, remained behind, his white badge flipped over to conceal his name.
Like the female officers, the coordinators - men age 40 or over - play a purely supportive role.
Unlike them, they are not schooled in maintaining a polished image.
"Sometimes we fight verbally."
"Sometimes we fight physically," Mr. Li said matter-of-factly.
"Most of the time it is the public who starts it."
Prosecutors won't charge Senator Ensign
Justice Department prosecutors have cleared Senator John Ensign of criminal allegations arising from his affair with a former campaign aide and his efforts to secure lobbying work for the woman's husband, the senator's lawyers announced Wednesday.
The decision ends the most serious legal threat facing Mr. Ensign, the Nevada Republican who was considered a possible Republican presidential candidate in 2012 until the scandal over his affair made national headlines last year and damaged his career.
Mr. Ensign's office said he was "certainly pleased" by the decision, which followed a yearlong investigation.
The senator could still face disciplinary action by the Senate ethics committee.
Mr. Ensign's lawyers said the Justice Department had "informed us that Senator Ensign is no longer a target of its investigation and that it has no plans to bring any charges against him in this matter."
The Justice Department declined to comment on the case.
The announcement came as something of a surprise to many ethics lawyers outside the Justice Department, who said there appeared to be significant evidence to indicate that Mr. Ensign may have conspired to violate a criminal ban on federal lobbying.
Interviews, e-mail and other documents first disclosed in October 2009 in The New York Times indicated that Mr. Ensign had helped Douglas Hampton, who was one of his aides, secure lucrative lobbying work to win the silence of Mr. Hampton and his wife, Cynthia, about the senator's affair with her.
Mrs. Hampton once served as treasurer of an Ensign campaign.
Mr. Ensign contacted a number of political backers to find work for Mr. Hampton and then advocated on their behalf after they had hired Mr. Hampton to lobby for them, according to the documents and interviews.
Because Mr. Hampton had recently been an aide to Mr. Ensign, he was barred by law from lobbying his former employer or the Senate as a whole for a year.
Ethics experts said the unusual arrangement between Mr. Ensign and Mr. Hampton, who were close friends before the affair, appeared at odds with the so-called revolving door lobbying ban.
From the evidence that has been made public, "there appeared to be a prima facie case of a conspiracy to violate, and substantial violation of the revolving door statute," said Stanley Brand, a Washington lawyer who specializes in defending clients investigated by the government.
While Justice Department officials declined to explain the reasoning behind the decision in the Ensign case, Mr. Brand and other ethics lawyers said the department appeared wary of taking on political prosecutions after a number of high-profile setbacks for its public integrity section, including the decision last year to drop the prosecution against former Senator Ted Stevens amid charges of prosecutorial misconduct.
Federal prosecutors "are clearly gun shy," said Melanie Sloan, the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, an advocacy group that brought several complaints against Mr. Ensign in the case.
"This basically says high-ranking government officials can now assume the laws don't apply to them," she added.
Paul Coggins, Mr. Ensign's lead lawyer, said in an interview that he received a phone call from a Justice Department prosecutor on Monday and a follow-up the next day, telling him that the department was not seeking charges against his client.
Mr. Ensign's defense team had been cooperating with prosecutors in trying to persuade them that the senator, as his office reiterated in a statement Wednesday, "acted in accordance with the law."
Mr. Coggins declined to spell out the legal arguments he made to prosecutors.
"I'm not comfortable going into the details of my discussions with the Justice Department except to say that we think they made the right decision," he said.
Last month, the Federal Election Commission decided to drop an investigation into a separate complaint by the ethics group alleging that a $96,000 payment from Mr. Ensign's parents to the Hamptons violated federal election law.
The election commission said it did not have enough evidence to prove the money was anything except a gift.
One company for which Mr. Ensign helped Mr. Hampton find lobbying work was NV Energy, a major Nevada company that had long supported the senator.
One e-mail sent in December 2008 showed that after the company brought Mr. Hampton on as a lobbyist, Mr. Ensign's chief of staff, John Lopez, communicated with Mr. Hampton and told him that he was "pounding" the Interior Department over an issue in dispute.
Mr. Ensign also attended a lunch with Mr. Hampton and another Nevada client, Allegiant Air, and called the transportation secretary to set up a meeting on the airline's behalf after it had hired Mr. Hampton to do lobbying work.
When news of the affair first surfaced last year, Mr. Ensign apologized to his constituents and resigned his position as the fourth-ranking Republican leader in the Senate.
After keeping a low profile for many months, Mr. Ensign told reporters two weeks ago that he planned to run for a third term in the Senate.
In announcing that Mr. Ensign was no longer the target of a criminal investigation, his spokeswoman, Jennifer Cooper, said the senator hoped the ethics committee would quickly follow the Justice Department's lead and end its inquiry.
"Senator Ensign looks forward to continuing his hard work on behalf of the people of Nevada," she said.
Cheshire Appeal Will Point to Twitter
There were half a dozen of them typing away in the courtroom rows.
Minute by minute, they sent out reports of gruesome testimony via Twitter.
In the end, the defense says, there were more than 140,000 Twitter messages about the trial that dealt with rape and children tied to their beds in a house that was set ablaze.
On Thursday, the widely followed trial of Steven J. Hayes, who was convicted of killing three members of a Cheshire, Conn., family, is set to come to an official end with the judge's imposition of the death sentence voted for by the jury.
But lawyers for Mr. Hayes have already made court filings that sketch out appeals arguments that are likely to occupy the courts for years.
One of the most provocative is that the intense reporting on the trial - including mainstream reporters' extensive use of Twitter - created a "circus atmosphere" and such widespread, instant saturation with inflammatory details that the jury was improperly swayed by public passions.
The claim could force appeals judges to grapple with the question of whether new technology requires new courtroom rules.
"As I experienced it during this trial, I think there's a real danger that the inclusion of new technology in the courtroom is affecting an individual's fair-trial rights," said Thomas J. Ullmann, Mr. Hayes's chief defense lawyer.
The trial judge, Jon C. Blue of State Superior Court, tersely rejected the claims in a ruling last week, saying that the news media were "carefully controlled" and that there was no evidence the jury was driven by passion.
But that is not likely to be the last word on the issue.
For decades, appeals courts have recognized that coverage of notorious cases can raise questions about a trial's fairness.
In a landmark 1966 ruling, the United States Supreme Court overturned the conviction of a Cleveland osteopath, Dr. Sam Sheppard, for the murder of his wife, saying in its decision, Sheppard v. Maxwell, that there was a "carnival atmosphere at trial" because of the news media.
The crime is believed by some to have been the inspiration for the television show and the movie "The Fugitive."
Some lawyers said appeals courts reviewing Mr. Hayes's conviction half a century later might be intrigued by the argument that new rules could be necessary to govern ways of communicating from courtrooms unimagined at the time of Dr. Sheppard's case.
"There is a general reason for concern about the impact of the new media" in high-profile trials, said John J. Donohue III, a Stanford Law School professor who studied the Connecticut death penalty and wrote a report that said it was arbitrarily enforced.
Professor Donohue said some appeals judges might be intrigued by the idea that limiting instant communication from courtrooms might make trials fairer.
The Twitter issue is just one of many outlined by Mr. Hayes's lawyers that are likely to be argued for years, delaying an execution.
The defense lawyers also claim, for example, that Mr. Hayes may have been prejudiced when Judge Blue declined to allow them to test potential jurors' reactions by showing them grisly crime-scene photographs during jury selection.
Some of the jurors have said they were horrified by the photographs of the victims, Jennifer Hawke-Petit, 48, and her daughters, Hayley, 17, and Michaela, 11.
The defense lawyers say they will also challenge the constitutionality of the death penalty and argue that the judge wrongly removed a juror who had been critical of prosecutors and that he improperly added pressure for a verdict by his unusual decision to direct the jury to deliberate over a weekend.
The jurors were not sequestered.
But their arguments about the effect of the intense coverage of the trial may draw the most interest.
They noted in a challenge to the verdict filed last month that the case dominated the news in Connecticut and was discussed during the election campaign by candidates for governor and the United States Senate.
They argued that the news media continually fanned the flames of emotion about the case.
"The daily crush of media tweets, cameras and reporters outside the courthouse," the lawyers wrote, "was unlike anything ever seen here in New Haven and maybe statewide."
Their focus on the Twitter coverage is controversial.
In interviews, some journalists said the claim that instant news was more incendiary than reports delivered more slowly was a Luddite view that would make poor court policy governing coverage of future trials.
But some lawyers said appeals courts were often attracted to arguments that social and technological changes required adaptation by the courts.
Mr. Hayes's lawyers are pressing that claim.
In their filing, they referred to the Supreme Court's 1966 decision overturning Dr. Sheppard's conviction because of the trial coverage and made it clear they would claim that the new media required new rules.
"This case," they wrote, "represents the Sheppard v. Maxwell of the 21st century."
Can civility bridge the divide?
After a campaign notable for invective and negativity, a modicum of civility has broken out in Washington this week.
Is it a harbinger of genuine bipartisan cooperation ahead or an illusory moment before a quick return to partisan combat in the capital?
Tuesday's meeting between President Obama and congressional leaders produced no breakthroughs on the big issues that must be dealt with during the lame-duck session.
But by all accounts, it was at least a polite discussion of the two sides' differences as well as a recognition of their shared responsibilities to govern, rather than another empty episode of partisan point scoring.
Wednesday's public meeting of the president's deficit commission was equally civilized, despite the policy differences that remain among the members.
It seems clear that close interaction over a period of months produced a mutual respect that transcends the ideological gulf that still separates the members.
That's hardly enough to declare that a new era of cooperation has arrived.
Both sides are now in a period of testing - probing one another for signs of cooperativeness and compromise while trying to evaluate the limits of public opinion and voters' patience for renewed partisan warfare.
Which is why the meeting on Tuesday and the participants' reviews of it afterward were done with a minimum of demands or accusations.
The philosophical differences between Obama and the Republicans are too large and too deeply held to suggest any quick change in the climate that existed during the past two years.
Whether the issue is taxes, spending, health care or entitlements, the two sides remain miles apart.
Still, the November election has tempered Washington, at least in the short term.
"There's no question that tonally things have changed," said Pete Wehner, a Bush administration official now with the Ethics and Public Policy Center.
"Those are inevitable after elections.
Elections arouse partisan passions, and then they die down.
That is good."
On some issues, particularly those on the agenda for the lame-duck session, Republicans and Democrats have little choice but to find a solution.
The Bush tax cuts expire at the end of the year, and nobody favors that.
Both sides want to find a way to preserve some or all of them, permanently or temporarily.
Similarly, compromise is likely on extending unemployment benefits, if only because Republicans can't afford to look like they favor tax cuts for the wealthy while denying jobless workers unemployment compensation.
After Tuesday's meeting at the White House, there is greater optimism for a possible deal on these issues during the lame duck session, along with ratification of the New START pact.
But William Galston of the Brookings Institution cautions that successful cooperation on the pressing issues of the lame-duck session will not necessarily lead to continued bipartisanship when the new 112th Congress convenes in January.
Instead, he said, a period of disagreement is likely, even inevitable.
"After things that have to get done get done, the psychology in the short term will revert to one of confrontation," he said.
Wehner, too, expressed skepticism - which is widely shared - that civility will lead to real cooperation.
"I view most of what happens between now and 2012 as an undercard, or shadow boxing, to the main event in 2012," he said.
The reasons have much to do with the makeup of the new Republican majority in the House and the tea party voters who were instrumental in creating it.
However mindful Republican leaders are of the dangers of overplaying their hand, they know they must try to live up to their promises to cut government spending and repeal the new health-care law.
Those partisan lines are already clear in the initial reactions to the deficit commission recommendations, which include reforming the tax code and raising some taxes, raising the retirement age and cutting spending.
Co-chairs Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles have taken on one of the most difficult jobs in Washington and have, in their own estimation, forced the issue of the deficit onto the public agenda in ways that can't be ignored.
But they need 14 votes on the 18-member commission to issue their plan as an official recommendation, and they have been struggling to get anywhere close to that number.
The greatest resistance is among the elected officials on the panel, suggesting that on fiscal issues there is, today at least, little grounds for or desire for compromise.
Galston predicts two phases in the battles between the White House and congressional Republicans.
The first will come next year in the form of partisan clashes, as Republicans challenge Obama on the budget, taxes and health care, followed later by a period of greater bipartisan cooperation.
What would cause the shift?
Public opinion.
There is considerable evidence that, despite the partisanship of the recent election, a majority of Americans still want to see the two parties work together.
If confrontation leads to stalemate, as it did in 1995, then both parties will be carefully watching the public reaction.
Whoever is judged to be losing is likely to shift course and seek compromise.
That, however, may be an optimistic view.
Partisanship and polarization are greater today than they were in the mid-1990s, and there appears to be a bigger ideological gap between Obama and congressional Republicans than there was between President Bill Clinton and the Republicans then.
At the same time, activists in both parties see 2010 as mere prelude to a more consequential election in 2012.
Given that reality, the civility on display this week may be welcomed by many Americans.
But it will take much more effort on the part of both sides to find common ground on the issues that still divide them.
Leaked U.S. document portrays Moscow as haven of corruption
Control of the city is in the hands of a "kleptocracy," and it passes on a portion of the bribes and protection money it collects all the way to the Kremlin, the U.S. Embassy in Russia reported in a memo in February.
Both the police and the Federal Security Service run huge protection rackets that help account for the high cost of living in Moscow, it said.
They collect money not only from legitimate businesses but from organized criminal groups as well.
Each layer of the bureaucracy - what Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has termed the "vertical of authority" - takes its cut as the money moves up the ladder.
The memo, which was sent to Washington under the name of Ambassador John Beyrle, was posted by WikiLeaks on its Web site Wednesday.
The memo is based on sources whose names have been redacted.
It was written while Yuri Luzhkov was still Moscow's mayor, and it blames him for much of the corruption.
He was fired in October by President Dmitry Medvedev, but there has been little evidence of a cleanup since then.
Luzhkov and his wife, Yelena Baturina, who owns a prominent construction firm, have consistently denied corruption accusations over the years, and he has won several libel suits over such accusations.
In September he told a Russian television station, when asked about a documentary suggesting he was corrupt: "It is mad, it is filth, it is a mess."
Russians overwhelmingly believe that theirs is a corrupt society, polls have shown.
But it is unusual to find the particulars spelled out as they were in the embassy's report, and it is unheard of that it should be diplomats from a foreign country doing so.
"The Moscow city government's direct links to criminality have led some to call it 'dysfunctional,' and to assert that the government operates more as a kleptocracy than a government," the memo says.
"Criminal elements enjoy a 'krysha' (a term from the criminal/mafia world literally meaning 'roof' or protection) that runs through the police, the Federal Security Service (FSB), Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD), and the prosecutor's office, as well as throughout the Moscow city government bureaucracy.
"Analysts identify a three-tiered structure in Moscow's criminal world."
"Luzhkov is at the top."
"The FSB, MVD and militia are at the second level."
"Finally, ordinary criminals and corrupt inspectors are at the lowest level."
"This is an inefficient system in which criminal groups fill a void in some areas because the city is not providing some services."
The report says that the FSB rakes in money from the biggest firms, and that the police target small businesses.
One source, it said, "explained that Moscow business owners understand that it is best to get protection from the MVD and FSB (rather than organized crime groups) since they not only have more guns, resources, and power than criminal groups, but they are also protected by the law."
"For this reason, protection from criminal gangs is no longer so high in demand."
The memo notes that, while the collection of money is comprehensive, the protection itself can be spotty; even those who pay are sometimes subject to arrest.
Those who do not pay quickly find their businesses shut down on one pretext or another.
Medvedev has talked several times about fighting corruption but has admitted that he has made little headway.
The embassy memo relays reports of men taking suitcases, presumably stuffed with cash, into the Kremlin itself.
"In his fight against corruption, Medvedev has to rely on bureaucrats," Georgy Satarov, director of the Moscow think tank Indem, said in a recent interview.
"But he is a part of this bureaucracy."
"He is not part of a political class, because a political class doesn't exist in Russia anymore."
Without politics, without an opposition, without a separation of powers, he said, corruption is inevitable.
Nationwide, Indem estimates that corruption costs Russia more than $300 billion a year.
The country was ranked 154th in a recent survey on global perceptions of corruption by the nongovernmental organization Transparency International (countries are ranked from least to most corrupt).
The disclosure of the U.S. Embassy memo, which didn't occur until late evening Moscow time, is sure to stir displeasure within the Russian government, although to the extent that Luzhkov can be blamed for Moscow's failings, it might be an opportunity for the Kremlin to argue that it is solving the problem.
Interviewed for CNN by Larry King, Putin suggested that the WikiLeaks documents may be fabrications and reacted angrily to a disclosure that U.S. diplomats had called him Batman to Medvedev's Robin.
"The truth of the matter is, this is about our interaction, which is an important factor of the domestic policies in this country," he said.
"But to be honest with you, we didn't suspect that this would be done with such arrogance, with such a push and, you know, being so unethically done."
Khmer Rouge veterans forced to confront the past
In a dimly lighted concrete classroom with smudged and peeling walls, the principal of Anlong Veng High School recalled the man who had built it, the late Khmer Rouge leader Ta Mok.
"Everyone here loves Ta Mok."
"He was a good leader, and he cared about his people," said Sreng Kor Ma, 42.
Known as "the Butcher" for his brutality during Khmer Rouge rule, the commander remains popular in this remote former Khmer Rouge stronghold in northwestern Cambodia, where he built hospitals, bridges and other infrastructure and where thousands of the organization's former soldiers still live.
But this year, 12 years after the Khmer Rouge surrendered to the government, long-held loyalties are finally being challenged in Anlong Veng.
In April, a local truth and reconciliation forum allowed victims to publicly confront people who had participated in the regime.
In June, the government distributed a high school textbook here that for the first time teaches the history of the Khmer Rouge to the children of its former soldiers.
And in July, a joint U.N. and Cambodian tribunal handed down its first conviction of a former Khmer Rouge member, sentencing the onetime chief of the notorious Tuol Sleng torture center, Kaing Khek Iev, better known as Duch, to 35 years in prison.
With each of those developments, anxiety has grown among Anlong Veng's Khmer Rouge veterans, complicating efforts at reconciliation and their attempts to reintegrate into Cambodian society.
"There is resentment and fear among the former Khmer Rouge, but they are powerless to do anything," said Chhang Youk, head of the Documentation Center of Cambodia, an independent organization that researches the regime.
"For them, life under the Khmer Rouge was glorious, but the regime has become symbolic of evil."
"It is creating divisions within families."
During the Khmer Rouge rule of Cambodia, from 1975 until 1979, an estimated 1.7 million people were executed or died from starvation, disease or overwork.
When the Vietnamese invaded and toppled the Pol Pot-led government in 1979, remnants of the regime and its military fled to Cambodia's border with Thailand.
There they launched an insurgency that endured until the last of the movement surrendered in December 1998.
As Pol Pot, Nuon Chea and Ieng Sary directed the guerrilla war from their bases in western Cambodia's mountains and jungles, Ta Mok cultivated a following in Anlong Veng.
But in the mid-1990s, after a U.N.-sponsored peace agreement led to the country's first democratic elections in 1993, large groups of Khmer Rouge fighters began defecting to the government, culminating in the surrenders of Ieng Sary in 1996 and Nuon Chea and Khieu Samphan in 1998.
Pol Pot died of natural causes in 1998, and Ta Mok, who had held out, was captured by government forces in 1999 in the nearby Dangrek Mountains.
He died in a Phnom Penh prison in 2006 while awaiting trial.
With their benefactors no longer providing for them, most former Khmer Rouge fighters have descended into the grinding poverty common in rural Cambodia, and many remain nostalgic for the movement.
Although a few elite Khmer Rouge officials kept their local government posts in exchange for laying down their arms, the rank and file remain poor, unskilled farmers.
"These people have benefited very little following the surrender," said Sok Leang of the Center for Justice and Reconciliation, which holds public forums throughout Cambodia, including in Anlong Veng.
"They are embedded with the utopian agrarian ideology of the regime."
"They were brought up with no concept of doing business."
Sor Lim, 55, who joined the Khmer Rouge as a teenager in 1974, fought in the jungle around Anlong Veng before settling down to life as a poor rice farmer in 1998.
"Life under the Khmer Rouge was good," he said.
"Ta Mok fed everyone."
"But now, life is difficult because we have to provide for ourselves."
The ongoing Khmer Rouge tribunal has also provoked worries here.
Early next year, the court is expected to begin trying Nuon Chea, Khieu Samphan, Ieng Sary and his wife, Ieng Thirith, another former Khmer Rouge minister.
The court's mandate is to prosecute senior leaders and those most responsible for crimes, but it has not said whether it will pursue cases beyond those four.
This has done little to calm fears in Anlong Veng.
Recent media speculation has centered on Im Chaem, 64, who was a district chief in Banteay Meanchey province during Khmer Rouge rule in the late 1970s.
In 2007, she told researchers from the Documentation Center of Cambodia that she had supervised construction of the Trapeang Thma dam, a project in which thousands of forced laborers are thought to have died.
On a sweltering recent evening, Im Chaem returned from working in the fields to her wooden stilt house on a dirt road outside Anlong Veng.
As the sun cast long shadows across the parched grass, Im Chaem declined to discuss her past in the Khmer Rouge.
If the court summoned her, she said, she would refuse to go.
"Cambodia is at peace and stable," she said.
"If there are more prosecutions, there will be war."
Prime Minister Hun Sen, who defected from the Khmer Rouge in 1978, has also repeatedly warned that instability will occur if the court pursues more suspects, although experts and historians dispute that.
"Cambodia must dig a hole and bury the past," he has said.
But confronting the past is just what Cambodia must do to move forward, said Chhang Youk, of the documentation center.
"Reconciliation in Khmer terms is reconnecting the broken pieces," he said.
"It's our obligation to put these broken pieces together so that we can understand."
The center produced the first government-approved textbook about the Khmer Rouge, the 75-page "A History of Democratic Kampuchea."
It distributed it in Anlong Veng in June as a supplement to the Education Ministry's high school history textbook, which contains fewer than four pages about the Khmer Rouge.
As in much of Cambodia, Anlong Veng's young people know few details about the Khmer Rouge, despite the town's connection to the regime.
Touch Valeak, 19, a student at Anlong Veng High School, said the new textbook was helping students understand an important part of their history.
But his parents reacted with skepticism when he took the book home to study.
"My family rejects many parts of the textbook and the tribunal," he said.
"They are suspicious because they are not sure how many people the court will prosecute."
Such resistance has made the reconciliation process complex and difficult, Sok Leang said.
But the public forums, the textbook and the tribunal are beginning to have an impact, he said.
Still, the Khmer Rouge retains a powerful allure here.
Up in the Dangrek Mountains, a path overgrown with weeds and strewn with discarded plastic bags leads to a rectangle of black soot covered by a rusted tin roof.
Pol Pot's body was burned here on a pile of tires after his death in 1998.
Nuom Sothea, 31, a roadside cellphone vendor, said she didn't know much about the man who was cremated there.
"But he has a strong spirit, and many local people go there to pray to him," she said.
It was Nuom Sothea's birthday, and later that day she planned to walk to Pol Pot's final resting place, where she would leave a bunch of ripe bananas in hopes of bringing good luck.
Belarus agrees to give up its stock of weapons-grade uranium
In a surprise victory for President Obama's campaign to secure nuclear material worldwide, the government of Belarus announced Wednesday that it will give up its stock of highly enriched uranium, a critical component of nuclear weapons.
The deal was disclosed in a joint statement issued after Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton met with Belarusan Foreign Minister Sergei Martynov on the sidelines of a security summit here.
The U.S. government had been trying for years to persuade Belarus to give up its highly enriched uranium and seemed to have hit a roadblock last spring.
But U.S. officials told The Washington Post that a pair of classified operations were carried out with Belarus in the past two months to remove 187 pounds of weapons-grade uranium from a Belarusan research facility.
That set the stage for Wednesday's agreement to remove the rest of the material - about 500 pounds' worth, according to one official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter.
The agreement appeared to be one of the most important results of Obama's 47-nation Nuclear Security Summit in April, which excluded Belarus.
And it was apparently good enough to secure the former Soviet republic's invitation to the follow-up summit, in 2012.
"I was really fascinated by the fact they want a seat at the 2012 Nuclear Security Summit."
"That proves to me this process is working," said Ken Luongo, president of the Partnership for Global Security, a group promoting nuclear security.
Clinton called the agreement "a very significant, important step" by Belarus.
Obama pledged in Prague in April 2009 to secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world within four years.
Since then, the U.S. government has helped six countries get rid of all their highly enriched uranium.
Belarus would be the seventh.
A dozen countries did so under the George W. Bush administration.
At the time of Obama's Nuclear Security Summit, Belarusan President Alexander Lukashenko had declared that the nation would never give up its uranium.
"We have kept highly enriched uranium - hundreds of kilograms of what is basically weapons-grade and lower-enriched uranium," Lukashenko said then.
"This is our commodity... We are not going to make dirty bombs, and we are not going to sell it to anybody."
"We're using it for research purposes, is all."
Belarus approached the United States a few months ago, however, indicating interest in reaching an agreement.
The first undertaking to remove Belarus's uranium, in October, was especially complicated because the material had been slightly irradiated, officials said.
It was loaded onto a special train that traveled more than 1,300 miles to a Russian facility for storage and disposal, officials said.
The second operation concluded Monday and was done by plane, according to the officials.
The U.S. government spent $13 million on the efforts, much of it to supply Belarus's research facility with low-enriched uranium, which is not suitable for nuclear weapons.
"This was very carefully coordinated and orchestrated to build up the trust" that led to the agreement signed by Clinton, said Andrew Bieniawski, an Energy Department official working on Global Threat Reduction.
The James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies estimated this year that Belarus had at least 88 pounds of weapons-grade uranium, as well as hundreds of pounds of highly enriched uranium.
Belarus will aim to eliminate its stockpile by 2012, according to the joint statement.
Relations between Belarus and the United States have been strained for years, primarily because of Lukashenko's harsh repression of human rights.
But Wednesday's statement suggested a potential thawing.
"Welcoming progress on these global security issues, the United States and Belarus acknowledged that enhanced respect for democracy and human rights in Belarus remains central to improving bilateral relations, and is essential to the progress of the country and its citizens," it said.
Mass Slaughter on a Personal Level
Peter Englund's intense and bighearted new book, "The Beauty and the Sorrow: An Intimate History of the First World War," begins with a long dramatis personae of the sort that can make your heart sink.
Here is advice for proceeding: Gently excise this page and make it your bookmark.
You will be getting to know these people very well in Mr. Englund's novelistic telling, and this dramatis personae will function as your GPS, a beacon during those few moments when, like one of his men and women, you are confused and bereft in the fog of war.
Mr. Englund is a Swedish historian and journalist.
He is also the new permanent secretary of the Swedish Academy, which awards the Nobel Prize in Literature.
What he has written here is an unusual book, one he describes, not inaccurately, as "a work of anti-history."
It contains few big names, major treaties or famous battles; there are almost no ambassadors, dashing journalists or discussions of tactics and materiel.
It's not so much a book about what happened, he explains, as "a book about what it was like." It's about "feelings, impressions, experiences and moods."
"The Beauty and the Sorrow" threads together the wartime experiences of 20 more or less unremarkable men and women, on both sides of the war, from schoolgirls and botanists to mountain climbers, doctors, ambulance drivers and clerks.
A few of these people will become heroes.
A few will become prisoners of war, or lose limbs, go mad or die.
Their lives flicker here like votive candles lighted in a church; new ones are added to the mix while some wink out.
Mr. Englund's book is a deviation from standard history books.
It is a corrective too to the notion that World War I was only about the dire trench warfare on the Western Front.
"The Beauty and the Sorrow" expertly pans across other theaters of war: the Alps, the Balkans, the Eastern Front, Mesopotamia, East Africa.
Soldiers in this book have beehives fall on them; one has Christmas in Egypt under the pyramids; tsetse flies are an intractable problem.
This is a moving book, almost from the start.
War floods these people's lives like a natural catastrophe, a Hurricane Katrina that reeks of cordite.
When cannon fire is heard in the distance, and you are a woman at home with your children, do you stay or flee?
Who is coming, anyway?
Almost no one understands what's happening, even why this war is to be fought.
"Lack of facts," Mr. Englund observes, "has been padded out with guesses, suppositions, hopes, fears, idées fixes, conspiracy theories, dreams, nightmares and rumors."
"The Beauty and the Sorrow" follows individuals like Florence Farmborough, an English nurse in the Russian Army, and Richard Stumpf, a young German high-seas fleet seaman.
Their stories are mostly taken from memoirs, letters and other already published material.
The accounts of their lives can be terrifying or stirring, but are most fully alive in Mr. Englund's accumulation of small moments, stray details.
Many of these are about deprivation and making do.
In telling a German schoolgirl's story he says: "Ersatz, everywhere ersatz."
"Substitute coffee, fake aluminum, imitation rubber, paper bandages, wooden buttons."
He goes on about the ersatz food in Germany.
He describes "meat made of pressed rice boiled in mutton fat (and finished off with a fake bone made of wood); tobacco made of dried roots and dried potato peel; shoes soled with wood."
There are, he notes, "837 registered meat substitutes permissible in the production of sausages, 511 registered coffee substitutes."
Some stories are about honor and bravery.
One American recognizes his own impulse toward savagery and declares about war: "You feel that, after all, this is what men were intended for rather than to sit in easy chairs with a cigarette and whiskey, the evening paper or the best seller, and to pretend that such a veneer means civilization and that there is no barbarian behind your starched and studded shirt front."
Conversely a British soldier realizes that he will most likely die, and that no one will notice or care.
"Once one is resigned to the thought of sacrificing oneself, one would like to think that it might happen in front of an audience," he writes.
Instead, it is horribly like "a condemned man being strangled secretly."
Other observations are about an old Europe falling away, and about new types of terror.
"The conflict has increasingly become an economic competition," Mr. Englund writes, "a war between factories."
He catches the arrival of what he calls "a new species in the bestiary of the young century: the articulate and ideologically convinced mass murderer in well-cut clothes who performs his butchery while sitting behind a desk."
People behave in unanticipated ways; there is as much base behavior as heroism.
Mr. Englund discussed the soldiers who actively tried to catch a venereal disease from prostitutes as a way to evade service at the front.
"The most grotesque expression of this can be seen in the trade of gonococcal pus, which soldiers buy and smear into their genitals in the hope of ending up in hospital," he writes.
"Those who are really desperate rub it into their eyes, which often results in lifelong blindness."
In this translation from the Swedish by Peter Graves, Mr. Englund's prose is supple but unshowy, perfectly suited to his humane task.
In dozens of small scenes he catches the way the war has "unleashed uniquely uncontrollable forces: extreme nationalism, social revolution, religious hatred."
People begin to ask why their leaders are making them fight.
The best books about World War I have often been oblique, like Paul Fussell's "Great War and Modern Memory," or novels, like Erich Maria Remarque's "All Quiet on the Western Front," rather than comprehensive histories.
Mr. Englund's volume joins an unconventional pantheon.
His book has the most devastating ending I can remember in a piece of nonfiction.
I won't give it away.
But it's as if he has reached from his book, snatched that dramatis personae page from your fingers, and lighted it with a match.
After an Earlier Misstep, a Minutely Planned Raid
Hundreds of police officers were involved, some of them wearing riot helmets.
The overnight hours of Monday into Tuesday were chosen because Zuccotti Park would be at its emptiest.
The operation was kept secret from all but a few high-ranking officers, with others initially being told that they were embarking on an exercise.
Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly was at the center, his presence underscoring how the operation was fraught with challenges for the Police Department.
There could be no repeat of episodes in recent weeks, like the pepper-spraying of protesters, that violated department rules and created a firestorm of public sympathy for the squatters.
And so the police operation to clear Zuccotti Park of protesters unfolded after two weeks of planning and training.
Officials had prepared by watching how occupations in other cities played out.
A major disaster drill was held on Randalls Island, with an eye toward Zuccotti.
Officials increased so-called disorder training - counterterrorism measures that involve moving large numbers of police officers quickly - to focus on Lower Manhattan.
The last training session was on Monday night, on the Manhattan side of the East River.
The orders to move into the park came down at the "last minute," said someone familiar with the orders, which referred to the assignment only as "an exercise."
"The few cops that I know that were called into this thing, they were not told it was for going into Zuccotti Park," said the person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
"The only people who were aware of them going into Zuccotti Park were at the very highest levels of the department."
One reason for the secrecy was a lesson learned by the city.
On Oct. 14, officials wanted to clear the park, but then backed off as hundreds of protesters streamed in ahead of time after hearing of the plans.
The operation on Tuesday involved officers from various police units, including boroughwide task forces - scores of mobile officers who are usually used to flood high-crime neighborhoods.
Mr. Kelly said many people, almost like commuters, had been coming and going from the park during the day, making 1 a.m. a good time to move in.
"It was appropriate to do it when the smallest number of people were in the park," he said.
Emergency Service Unit trucks with klieg lights and loudspeakers gathered at Pike Slip and the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive, near the Manhattan Bridge, before moving out.
The lights and prerecorded messages booming from the loudspeakers seemed to cow many protesters.
As the community affairs officers moved into the park in their light-blue windbreakers, many protesters simply gathered their belongings and left.
No tents were touched until 1:45 a.m., the police said, giving the protesters time to gather their belongings.
Other teams of officers were seen gathering on the perimeter to move in if arrests were needed in the park.
Reporters in the park were forced to leave.
Paul J. Browne, the Police Department's chief spokesman, said it was for their safety.
But many journalists said that they had been prevented from seeing the police take action in the park, and that they had been roughly handled by officers.
Mr. Browne said television camera trucks on Church Street, along the park's western border, were able to capture images.
As the police moved west through the dense tangle of protesters" personal belongings, including luggage and plastic lawn and leaf bags stuffed with clothing, crews from the Sanitation Department followed, scooping up what was left behind.
Some protesters who refused to move were dragged out, the images appearing on the Internet soon after.
A core group of protesters took up positions close to the encampment's kitchen area, near the center of the park.
Some made a barrier, and the police moved in to methodically arrest them.
About 10 people in the epicenter of the encampment locked themselves together by their arms.
And two people chained themselves to trees, Mr. Kelly said.
Emergency service officers were called in to cut the locks.
No arrests were made in the park until about 3:30 a.m., Mr. Kelly said.
The clearing operation was complete about 75 minutes later, the police said.
Mr. Browne said about 142 people were arrested in the park.
Most of the arrests were for "disorderly conduct and resisting arrest," he said.
The highest-ranking officer on the scene was Joseph J. Esposito, the chief of department, the top uniformed officer in the department.
Phil T. Pulaski, the department's chief of detectives, was also there.
Mr. Kelly, while present, was "not directing operations," Mr. Browne said.
A second group of officers waited along the eastern side of Broadway, between Liberty and Cedar Streets, in case they had to move in.
Barricades were set up at Cortlandt Street, a block north of the park, and at Pine Street, a block south.
From those positions, the police were seen expanding the perimeter even farther outward from Zuccotti Park.
At one point, several officers, many with shields, were seen pushing people farther out.
About 28 people were on the northern perimeter.
Some of the rowdiest action of the night took place south of the park.
Around 5 a.m., south of Pine Street, one protester jumped on the hood of a police car, and others were seen releasing the air from the tires of a police van.
At one point, a piece of plywood came flying from the crowd.
In the end, one officer and one protester were hospitalized.
Support Workers' Union Will Sue City Over Layoffs
The union representing hundreds of school support workers who lost their jobs last month plans to sue the city on Wednesday, claiming the layoffs were unnecessary and discriminatory because of their disproportionate impact on schools that serve poor students.
The lawsuit is possibly the last weapon available to the union, District Council 37, in its effort to reverse the layoffs.
Six hundred seventy-two school aides, parent coordinators and other employees who were among the city's lowest paid lost their jobs on Oct. 7, in a move union leaders have described as political payback for their refusal to let the city access a health care fund run by labor groups to close its budget gap last spring.
City officials have categorically denied that accusation.
At a City Council hearing last month, Schools Chancellor Dennis M. Walcott said the layoffs were a part of the budget they signed off on in June.
One council member fired back, telling him that nothing in the budget specified that school support staff members would be laid off.
District Council 37 officials said they filed a notice of claim, warning the Department of Education that it would be sued; it will hold a news conference on Wednesday to announce the lawsuit's filing formally, in State Supreme Court in Manhattan.
The suit will list Mr. Walcott and the city's Department of Education as defendants, and counts eight laid-off workers as plaintiffs, all of them black or Latino women, as were most of the aides who lost their jobs.
Elizabeth Thomas, a spokeswoman for the city's Law Department, said the city had not seen the lawsuit and therefore could not comment on its specific allegations.
According to a draft of the complaint obtained by The New York Times, the union has zeroed in on the number of layoffs at schools in poor parts of the city to support a claim of inequitable treatment, saying poor schools lost more aides because they had been chronically underfinanced.
It points out that while there were no layoffs on Staten Island and few layoffs in schools in the Upper East Side or TriBeCa, 17 school aides lost their jobs in District 23 in Brownsville, Brooklyn, and 46 were let go in Districts 8 and 9 in the South Bronx.
Noting the loss of five out of eight school aides employed by Public School 36 in Harlem, where 68 percent of the students live in poverty, the lawsuit says, "This is not a neighborhood of well-heeled parents who can fund-raise to make up the budget shortfalls."
P.S. 36"s budget was cut by 3.26 percent this year, and it also lost money when the city changed the way it calculates the extra financing for each poor student schools enroll.
The union also claims that high school principals may have been misled by the language in a memo authorizing the dismissal of parent coordinators.
The memo used the word "excess" to describe the action, even though "excess" more commonly describes the act of moving a teacher from a school's payroll into a pool of available workers whose salaries are paid by the central office.
"Sixty-six parent coordinators were laid off," the draft complaint says, "and not merely excessed."
Mission over, Congress ready to agree on Libya
It finally looks like Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill are ready to agree on something related to the uprising in Libya.
All it took was for the revolt to succeed, longtime dictator Moammar Gaddafi to be captured and killed and American involvement to end.
On Tuesday, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee is to consider a resolution, sponsored by Chairman John Kerry (D-Mass.), along with Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Joseph I. Lieberman (I-Conn.), applauding Libyans for their successful rebellion and U.S. troops for their "bravery."
"This resolution is about honoring the courageous people of Libya as they begin to rebuild their country," Kerry said.
"It's an affirmation of bipartisan support for their democratic aspirations."
The language may sound innocuous, but nothing about the Libya debate has been easy so far.
This summer, lawmakers from both parties squabbled with each other and the White House over the wording of a series of resolutions to approve or disapprove of the U.S. military's role in the NATO mission in Libya.
In June, Kerry and McCain introduced a resolution authorizing the limited use of U.S. military forces in Libya.
The bill was defeated in the House by a wide bipartisan margin, and it never came up for a vote in the Senate.
But on the same day that bill failed in the House, the chamber also voted down a measure that would have cut funding for American operations in Libya.
That left the U.S. mission in a form of legislative purgatory - with Congress upset enough to criticize Obama's handling of the mission but not so angry as to actually pull the rug out from under it.
Then Congress's indecision was overtaken by events.
Tripoli fell to Libyan rebels in August, and Gaddafi was killed Oct. 20.
The NATO mission officially ended Oct. 31.
Now the Senate may be ready to act.
The Foreign Relations Committee resolution "congratulates the people of Libya for their tremendous courage and extraordinary resilience in liberating themselves" and "commends the men and women of the United States Armed Forces and their coalition partners who engaged in military operations to protect the people of Libya for their extraordinary bravery and professionalism."
The resolution also "affirms the national interest of the United States in a successful and irreversible transition to democracy in Libya."
Will the new measure earn the full support of the Foreign Relations panel, or will it split lawmakers like the June bill did?
The last version was opposed by Sen. Richard G. Lugar (Ind.), the committee's top Republican.
Lugar's spokesman said Monday that he had not seen the final version of the new bill yet.
Across the Capitol, the House is to vote this week on a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget, a top legislative priority of nearly every congressional Republican and some Democrats.
The measure, sponsored by Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), will be the first constitutional amendment on the budget or any other topic to actually get a floor vote in the House or Senate this Congress.
Other lawmakers have been unsuccessful so far in bringing their amendments to the floor, but not for lack of trying.
Goodlatte's is just one of 68 constitutional amendments that have been introduced this Congress, spanning a wide range of topics.
Some are duplicates - the same bill offered in both the House and Senate - and others are slight variations on each other.
There are at least 15 versions of the balanced budget amendment in the House alone, and another handful that would "control federal spending."
Some of those bills are identical too, but they give their sponsors - particularly freshmen Republicans looking to burnish their resumes - the chance to brag that they "authored" such a measure.
The Budget Control Act, which passed in August, required that both the House and Senate vote on a balanced budget amendment.
In March, 58 senators voted in favor of a non-binding resolution supporting the idea of such an amendment.
Beyond the budget, several members want to limit the number of terms members of Congress can serve, while Rep. José E. Serrano (D-N.Y.) wants to lift the two-term limit for presidents.
Rep. Jesse L. Jackson Jr. (D-Ill.) has offered a host of amendments guaranteeing the right to quality education and health care, among other subjects.
An amendment prohibiting same-sex marriage is a perennial offering, as is one prohibiting flag-burning.
Some lawmakers also want to allow for the nullification of federal laws if they are opposed by two-thirds of the states.
As eager as members have been to offer amendments, they're not moving at any faster pace than in past years.
In the 111th Congress, lawmakers offered 77 such amendments, and they introduced 66 in the 110th.
The pace pales in comparison to that of the early 1990s, when members regularly offered more than 150 amendments every two years, according to numbers provided by the Senate Library.
But they weren't much more successful then than they are now.
The last amendment to be added - the 27th - was ratified in 1992, but it was actually proposed by Congress in 1789.
"Beat up but not beaten," Giffords speaks in first TV interview since shooting
Ten months after a gunman shot her at point-blank range at a constituent event in Tucson, Rep. Gabrielle Gifffords (D-Ariz.) appeared on national television Monday night, sang along to the Broadway show tune "The Sun Will Come Out Tomorrow" and said she wanted to get better more than she wanted to return to Congress.
Appearing on ABC News's "20/20" with Diane Sawyer, Giffords struggled to formed sentences and needed help walking.
The show documented her difficult journey back from the damage inflicted by a bullet that fractured her skull and pierced the left side of her brain, passing from the front to the back of her head.
Three months ago, she made a surprise return to the House to triumphantly cast her vote on the debt-ceiling deal.
In her first television interview since the January shooting that killed six and wounded 13, Giffords smiled, laughed and sang - and described her recovery as "difficult."
Asked by Sawyer how she feels, Giffords, 41, responded, "Pretty good."
The interview with Giffords and her husband, astronaut Mark Kelly, was part of an hour-long "20/20" special that aired on the eve of the release of the couple's new book, "Gabby: A Story of Courage and Hope."
The special traced Giffords's recovery since the Jan. 8 shooting.
In videos shot by Kelly in the first few weeks, she is seen in her hospital bed, her head shaved and a long scar across her forehead.
She is capable only of holding up one or two fingers as her husband encourages her.
Months later, Giffords is seen sitting up in a wheelchair as therapists teach her how to perform simple actions.
A nod of the head.
A pucker of the lips.
And then, her first word: "What."
Within days, Giffords uttered another word - "toast," a request for a change in her breakfast menu.
Videos aired by ABC show that music played a central role in Giffords's recovery: The congresswoman is seen singing along with therapists to Cyndi Lauper's "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun" and Tom Petty's "Free Fallin." "
In the interview with Sawyer, Giffords, who goes through two hours of therapy every day, said she has no memory of the day of the shooting.
Her husband said that he was reading Giffords a newspaper story about the shooting on March 12 when she stopped him to ask for the first time about the six who had been killed in the incident.
Suspected gunman Jared Lee Loughner is being held at a Missouri prison and is being forcibly medicated as he awaits trial.
"A lot of people died," Giffords told Sawyer.
"Tough, tough, tough."
At one point in his wife's recovery, Kelly told Sawyer, she said, "I've been beaten."
"So, I would say, "Gabby, you have not been beaten," " Kelly said.
You've just been beat up.
And you're going to get through this, and you're going to recover and you're going to come back stronger than ever.
Troops feel more pity than respect
The event was a Wall Street gala that raised millions of dollars for homeless veterans in New York City.
Kid Rock sang a ballad about helplessness, frustration and loss.
On cue, several hundred soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines strode into position around him.
The black-tie crowd rose to its feet and cheered.
"The servicemen and women were regarded as heroes," said David Saltzman, who organized the spring fundraiser.
A senior military officer at the gala, also attended by the Joint Chiefs then-chairman, Adm. Mike Mullen, saw the troops" role differently.
"They were rolled out like some sort of orphan kid," the officer wrote in an e-mail.
I'm sure the organizers meant well.
I know they did.
But it wasn't respect, really. It was pity.
The starkly conflicting impressions illustrate the uneasy relationship that has taken hold between the military and an often distant, sometimes adoring American public.
The troops are lavished with praise for their sacrifices.
But the praise comes with a price, service members say.
The public increasingly acts as if it feels sorry for those in uniform.
"We aren't victims at all," said Brig. Gen. Sean B. MacFarland, who commanded troops in Iraq and will soon leave for Afghanistan.
"But it seems that the only way that some can be supportive is to cast us in the role of hapless souls."
The topic is a sensitive one for military leaders, who do not want to appear ungrateful or at odds with the public they serve.
They also realize that the anger that returning troops faced in the latter years of the Vietnam War was far worse.
As a result, most of the conversations about pity take place quietly and privately among combat veterans.
After his two sons returned from combat tours with the Marines, retired Col. Mark Cancian warned them that people outside the military would view their service from two perspectives.
Some would look at them with a sense of awe because they faced down insurgents and traveled to exotic places.
Others would wonder whether there was an "angry, violent veteran beneath the surface," said Cancian, who fought in Iraq and returned to a senior government job in Washington.
During his job search, he said, he sensed that some interviewers had subtly inquired whether he would be able to hold up under the strain of a demanding Washington job immediately after his combat tour.
"When you talk about your service, you need to counter the negative impressions," Cancian recalled telling his sons.
The military's unease springs, in part, from American indifference to the wars.
Battlefield achievements are rarely singled out for praise by a country that has little familiarity with the military and sees little direct benefit from the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.
"We, as a nation, no longer value military heroism in ways that were entirely common in World War II," said retired Lt. Gen. David Barno, who commanded U.S. troops in Afghanistan.
Instead, praise from politicians and the public focuses largely on the depth of a service member's suffering.
Troops are recognized for the number of tours they have endured, the number of friends they have lost or the extent of their injuries.
Military Faces Mounting Pressure to Crack Down on Rape
This week, a landmark hearing will decide whether 28 women and men have a case against the military for alleged inaction on rape.
If not, hundreds of plaintiffs are lining up for the next one.
Pfc. Elizabeth Lyman was 25 years old and 11 weeks pregnant the night she says she was raped by a fellow soldier.
It was October 2008, and she was heading back to her barracks at Miramar Air Station, just north of San Diego, after dinner with a friend when she ran into a male colleague carrying a 12-pack of beer.
He asked if he could join her in her room for a drink.
"A red flag went up," Lyman says.
But the Texas native brushed aside her concern.
I thought, no, he's 19.
"He's from Texas," she says.
"I wish I had listened to my instincts."
Within minutes of entering Lyman's room, the man came up from behind her, throwing her down and raping her, she alleges.
This week, on Nov. 18, Lyman and 27 other current and former military personnel will anxiously await a court ruling in a historic hearing to be held in Arlington, Va., that will decide whether a suit they have brought against former defense secretary Robert Gates and his predecessor, Donald Rumsfeld, will go to trial.
The suit alleges that Gates and Rumsfeld failed to curtail widespread rape within the military, in violation of soldiers" constitutional rights.
Filed in February by Susan Burke, a Washington, D.C., attorney, the suit initially involved 17 plaintiffs but grew to 28 in the following months - 25 women and three men, all of whom allege that they were raped or sexually assaulted by fellow soldiers, and that the military failed to investigate, prosecute, or provide adequate justice after the alleged attacks.
Burke says she is going after the military's top brass because the problem begins with them.
"The military is a top-down structure," she says.
"Who are the individuals who are in the position to eradicate the culture of retaliation? The top leadership."
Burke also says that since February, she has been contacted by nearly 400 other survivors, many of whom could be part of future suits.
Her strategy: rather than piling all the plaintiffs into this case - putting all her eggs in one basket, so to speak - she will file multiple cases, if need be, to keep the pressure on.
The defense team for the Department of Defense, led by United States Attorney Neil MacBride, has filed a motion to dismiss the case.
The court papers, obtained by Newsweek, detail the defense strategy - essentially, that the military cannot be sued by current or former soldiers for injuries incurred in the armed forces.
Per a 1950 Supreme Court ruling called the Feres Doctrine, the federal government is not liable for injury sustained by active-duty personnel.
"The alleged harms are incident to plaintiffs" military service," the documents say.
The Department of Defense declined to comment for this story.
Things have changed since the '50s.
While women are still officially prohibited from serving in combat, that distinction is in name only: modern wars rarely have clear front lines.
In both Iraq and Afghanistan, teams of female soldiers are playing increasingly important roles, especially in reaching out to local women in war zones.
The result: between those two wars, 150 female soldiers have died - two thirds of them during combat situations.
It's time for the military to modernize as well, Burke says.
She isn't alone in her fight; three other lawsuits are under way in addition to hers.
At Yale Law School, the Veterans" Legal Services Clinic is preparing a case against the four major military academies for allegedly fostering a misogynistic atmosphere.
Separately, the nonprofit Vietnam Veterans of America is assembling a suit against the military that focuses on the "personality disorder" diagnoses assigned to rape victims in order to discharge them from service - a common occurrence, according to activists such as Anu Bhagwati of the Service Women's Action Network, a human-rights group.
Her group filed a suit in December against the Veterans Administration, charging it with discriminatory practices in the way it handles benefit claims for people who say they were sexually assaulted in the service.
Nine separate bills have been introduced in Congress by a bipartisan mix of senators and representatives, proposing a range of fixes.
In 2010 there were 3,158 sexual assaults reported, according to the Department of Defense's Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office.
But assaults are notoriously underreported, and by the Pentagon's own estimate, that figure accounts for approximately 13.5 percent of the estimated 19,000 incidents that occurred that year.
The report, released in March, also examines prosecution rates: in 2010, 20 percent of reported cases in the military went to trial - half the rate of the civilian justice system.
The plaintiffs in Burke's case describe their attacks as just the first of a series of traumas.
In Lyman's case, she reported the alleged rape to military police less than an hour after it occurred.
That night, she says, she was asked to recount the details of her rape 11 separate times to a stream of police, doctors, and commanders.
She did a rape kit, and her assailant's blood - from a cut on his arm - was found in her bed.
Six months later, in April 2009, Lyman sat through a hearing before a judge, during which she was questioned about having had sex with her boyfriend earlier on the day of the attack.
Six people testified as character witnesses on behalf of the alleged perpetrator, who was eventually acquitted.
"I remember the day when the verdict was read," Lyman says.
"I thought I was going to go into labor - I ran screaming from the courtroom."
"They put me into the psychiatric unit, and when I got out, I remember saying to my command officer, "That wasn't his trial. That was my trial.""
Lyman was ordered to visit a military psychiatrist, who eventually diagnosed her with a personality disorder, rendering her unfit for service.
In January 2010 she was discharged under less-than-honorable terms, preventing her from receiving any benefits.
As for whether the case filed by Lyman and her fellow plaintiffs moves forward, it's a long shot, says John Turley, professor of law at George Washington University Law School.
However, he notes, "In my view they should be able to move forward."
What stands between them and a verdict is this doctrine that has been criticized since it was first issued.
I've been a lifelong critic of the Feres Doctrine.
The military is decades behind because they don't have the same incentive and deterrent posed by liability.
He adds, "The odds are heavily against them ... but it's important for them to try."
These things only change when good people are willing to fight.
If the hearing doesn't go their way, Burke, the plaintiffs" lawyer, will cue up her hundreds of other plaintiffs for future cases.
"We will continue battling the military on this issue until reform occurs," she says.
Or until we die, whichever comes first.
Walls Have Eyes: How Researchers Are Studying You on Facebook
Before he became the new face of right-wing extremism in Europe, Anders Behring Breivik was just another guy airing his anti-immigration views online.
On Monday, Breivik, who admitted to a killing spree in Norway in July which left 77 people dead, faced his first public court hearing.
While Breivik may have acted alone, he was far from alone in cyberspace: he had spent much of the time leading up to his attack at his computer, chatting with some of the millions of nationalists who support right-wing groups on social-networking sites.
After this summer's tragedy, researchers wanted to find out more about these people.
But how to find them?
Easy - just log on to Facebook.
"We realized that it wasn't that difficult to get to them at all," says Jamie Bartlett, the lead author of a recently published report on European digital populism by British think tank DEMOS.
Facebook's stash of personal information is so encyclopedic, says Bartlett, that the researchers could simply use the site's advertising tool to pinpoint their desired demographic with scientific accuracy - the way marketers have been doing for years.
Bartlett's team found half a million fans of right-wing groups across Europe and then targeted them with ads, but instead of linking to a new band or diet product, the ads invited users to complete a survey that asked questions about their education level, attitudes towards violence and optimism about their own future.
By reaching out through Facebook, Bartlett and his colleagues were able to survey over 10,000 followers of 14 far-right parties in 11 European countries - all without ever leaving the office.
"It's quite a new way of doing research," Bartlett says.
Some of the results aren't all that surprising: online supporters of right-wing groups tend to be young, male, and vexed by immigration.
But in something of a twist, "those who combine their online activism with offline activism are more reasonable, more democratic and less violent than those who just remain behind the computer screen."
DEMOS's work is just one example of how Facebook is becoming a hot new tool in the hands of scientists.
Think tanks, medical researchers and political scientists are using the site to study everything from health issues to social trends as expressed in 'Likes', wall posts and status updates.
With over 800 million active users adding an average of three pieces of content per day, the Facebook "data supernova" is generating a research boom, driving the number of academic papers with the site's name in the title up almost 800% over the past five years.
For some researchers, the beauty of Facebook is that it lets you study people you couldn't approach with a clipboard on the street.
"Before, when you tried to survey people from the British National Party, it would be very difficult to identify them."
"You'd have to go through the party and they would never allow you access," says Bartlett.
"Facebook cuts all that out - you go to them directly."
Others say the site could offer a way to identify and tackle social-health problems.
A recent study by Dr. Megan Moreno of the University of Wisconsin, Madison and her colleagues found that undergraduates who discussed their drunken exploits on Facebook were significantly more at risk for problem drinking than students who were silent on the topic.
Moreno suggests that students' peers, such as residential advisors, could monitor the site and intervene to help a student who posts one too many boozy status updates.
"You can't treat a problem if you can't diagnose it," Dimitri Christakis, Moreno's co-author and director of the Center for Child Health, Behavior and Development at the Seattle Children's Research Institute, told the Washington Post.
"We've found a way to identify kids at risk who would not otherwise be diagnosed."
Facebook, too, is constantly tapping into its own population for data.
The site's Data Team has worked up stats on relationship status and Valentine's Day, voter turnout in the 2010 midterms, and a National Happiness Index (mainly using information only it can access - champions of digital freedom have long held that the site should make its vast trove of data available to others for research.)
But Facebook's users know the site is watching them, whether they like it or not - the trade off for being able to play Scrabble with a friend thousands of miles away is allowing the site to mine your personal information.
But what about when Facebook users become part of a survey they don't even know about?
While researchers have well-defined guidelines about how they collect their data offline, online it's a free-for-all.
"I don't think a lot of users had even thought about the fact that a researcher could be looking at their profiles," says Neil Selwyn, a sociologist at the London Knowledge Lab, of a 2006 study he conducted using students' public Facebook walls.
"As far as they were concerned, it was just between them and their friends."
Then there's the question of methodology.
Even offline, there's no guarantee that a research subject is being completely honest.
On Facebook, it's impossible to know how much of a user's profile information and wall posts are true.
"What you say on Facebook and what you do outside of Facebook are two completely different things," says Selwyn.
Which is why, despite his years as a technology researcher, Selwyn thinks a clipboard and a pen are still the best research tools anyone can use.
"There's no substitute for going into the real world and speaking to real people," he says.
"Social research is supposed to be about the social - and a hell of a lot of the social still takes place offline."
"Cold and Inhuman": Anders Behring Breivik Makes First Public Court Appearance
Anders Behring Breivik, the man who confessed to masterminding twin attacks that killed 77 people in Norway this summer, has described himself as a "resistance" fighter during his first public court appearance in Oslo.
"I am a military commander in the Norwegian resistance movement and Knights Templar Norway," he said before a courtroom packed with 500 people.
"I object to the court because you received your mandate from organizations that support hate ideology and because it supports multiculturalism."
"I acknowledge the acts but I do not plead guilty."
Judge Torkjel Nesheim interrupted Breivik during that monologue because he "did not want to give Breivik the opportunity to use this hearing as a platform for him to express his views."
For the same reason he refused to allow Breivik, who brought a pre-written speech with him, to address the relatives of his victims at the end of the hearing.
Nesheim also ordered police to hold Breivik in custody for 12 more weeks, banned him from accessing media for four weeks, and said that authorities will have tight control over all visits and correspondence for eight weeks.
Around 30 survivors and victims" relatives attended the hearing.
Some came hoping to look Breivik in the eye, others to confirm that he is being held under lock and key.
All attended with the goal of moving toward closure.
"I thought he seemed cold and inhuman," one Utoya survivor told Norwegian broadcaster NRK.
"It was uncomfortable, but for me I moved on a little bit after seeing and hearing the suspect."
Dressed in a dark suit and blue tie, Breivik remained calm and professional throughout the hearing and looked journalists and survivors in the eye as he entered and exited the building.
Despite Breivik's bizarre notion of being part of a larger "resistance" movement, the judge determined that he is not insane, and said that there is no evidence he acted with accomplices.
It may comfort some that the July 22 attacks seem to be the work of one extremist rather than a group of radicals.
But that doesn't automatically ease the grief and confusion that an entire nation still feels.
"I wish he looked like a monster, but he doesn't," a relative of one victim said.
"It would be so much easier if he did."
7 Lessons From the Lost Steve Jobs Interview, Showing at a Theater This Week
Following the death of Steve Jobs on Oct. 5, there were some who compared him to Henry Ford - singling out the tech genius as the Great Modern Inventor.
But what Apple fans might find most revealing in a recently rediscovered Jobs interview dusted off in advance of special movie screenings in major markets this week, is how much this creative mind understood about business processes and product workflows.
He was certainly a designer, dreamer and self-identified hippie, but he was also a meticulous organizer and flow-chart tweaker - a man who believed that many business executives suffered from "a disease of thinking that a really great idea is 90 percent of the work... [but] there's a tremendous amount of craftsmanship between a great idea and a great product."
Back in 1995, Bob Cringely was developing the TV series Triumph of the Nerds about the dawn of the personal computer, and he sat down for more than an hour with Jobs for a rare, extended conversation.
At that point in time it had been roughly 10 years since Jobs had been forced out of Apple, and he was already hard at work at his new computer company NeXT, looking forward to the popular adoption of the Internet.
While a small portion of Cringely's interview was used in Nerds, he says that the interview's master copies went missing in shipping.
It was only following Jobs" death that a complete VHS copy was discovered in the director's garage.
This footage, slightly re-edited, is the basis of the 68-minute Steve Jobs: The Lost Interview, coming to Landmark Theaters this Wednesday and Thursday.
For someone known to loathe in-depth interviews, Jobs seems surprisingly eager here to expound on his technological philosophies and business strategies.
And incredibly thoughtful.
At four different points during the interview, there are major gaps between questions and answers - 10 to 15-second ruminations, where Jobs is clearly weighing his thoughts, aiming for precision.
There are also moments where Jobs" perfectionism rises to the surface, where he seems impatient about Cringely's questions, nudging him to move faster towards issues or subplots of greater import.
Filmed before the era of Pixar, the iPod or the iPhone, there's something eerily prescient about the Lost Interview, as Jobs assesses what he sees other companies doing right and wrong, and offers his own vision of the future of computing.
It's one thing to read posthumous appraisals of Jobs" career, but there's something raw and inspiring about the Jobs we see here, the anxious dreamer on the brink of greatness.
He has a vision for the way things could be and should be.
Not long after spelling it all out here he went and did it.
A quick rundown of seven notable Lost Interview sequences:
On how he learned to run a business:
"Throughout the years in business, I'd always ask: "Why do you do things?" and the answers you invariably get are: "Oh, that's just the way it's done.""
Nobody knows why they do what they do, nobody thinks about things very deeply in business.
That's what I found.
Jobs goes on to detail his efforts to streamline accounting at Apple.
Baffled by the way costs were recorded - often beginning with a "standard cost" that amounted to a blind guess, which was then adjusted with a "variance" - he developed an automated factory that ensured they could determine business costs down to the second.
On pranking the Pope:
Jobs recounts the "Blue Box" that he built with Steve Wozniak - a device that allowed people to effectively hack the phone company and make long distance calls for free.
The device has been widely written about before, but Jobs" euphoria here in describing the Blue Box as an act of empowerment is infectious.
He describes how he and Wozniak would test the box by using a pay phone, placing a call, and then connecting from one AT&T network to another while looping in as many satellites as possible.
"We were wrapping things around the globe a half dozen times and you would yell through the pay phone and it would come through a minute later in the pay phone next door," Jobs says with a giggle.
"We were young and what we learned was that we could build something ourselves that could control billions of dollars of infrastructure around the world."
Us two, we didn't know much, but we could build a little thing that could control a giant thing - it was an incredible lesson, and I don't think there would have ever been Apple without it.
Jobs goes on to detail one glorious prank that he and Wozniak nearly pulled of, ringing the Vatican via the Blue Box in the middle of the night and requesting to speak to the Pope, while doing their very best impression of Henry Kissinger.
As various members of the Catholic hierarchy were summoned in the middle of the night to talk to the American diplomat, the two burst into giggles just before the Pope himself was roused to come answer the phone.
On falling in love with technology (and cold-calling Bill Hewlett):
At the age of 12, on the hunt for spare parts to build a frequency counter, he looked up Bill Hewlett in the phone book and gave him a call.
Not long after their 20-minute phone conversation, Jobs landed a part-time summer job at Hewlett-Packard.
"That made a remarkable influence on me, it was the only company I had seen at that age and it formed my view of what a company was and how well they treated their employees."
Jobs later became one of the HP employees to visit the company's Palo Alto research labs, where he saw "the first desktop computer ever made."
It was as big as a suitcase, had a small cathode ray tube display, and I fell in love with it.
I would get a ride up to HP as a teenager and hang around that machine and write programs for it.
On improvising innovation:
At several points in the interview, Jobs talks about inventing new products on the fly.
Early in his career, as he set out to sell a handful of circuit boards, he was asked by a customer to assemble the full computer.
Working on only 30 days of credit, he had to figure out both the assembly and delivery of the finished devices.
Later while at Apple, he recalls the struggles he faced in developing a computer mouse:
"I remember having dramatic arguments...they were screaming at me that it would take five years [to build a mouse that would cost $300], and I got fed up and went outside and found a designer."
Ninety days later, we had a mouse we could build for $15 that was incredibly reliable.
On great companies losing steam:
Long before he led the revival of Apple, Jobs presciently foresaw the ways in which so many industry leaders would stumble in their vision, and lose control of their market share.
"Say you work at IBM or Xerox, so you make a better copier or printer, so what?"
You have a monopoly of the market share, so the company's not more successful.
Sales and marketing makes it more successful, so [it's those kinds of people] who end up running companies and the product people get driven out of the decision-making forum.
The product genius that led to that monopolistic position is rotted out by people who have no conception of good products vs. bad products - the craftsmanship required.
That's what happened at Xerox...
Xerox could have owned the entire computer industry.
It could have been ten times its size, could have been the Microsoft of the 90s...
They grabbed defeat from victory.
On innovation as art form:
"There's a tremendous amount of craftsmanship between a great idea and a great product... as you evolve that great idea, it changes and grows."
You learn a lot about the subtleties of it.
There are tradeoffs you have to make - certain things you can't make electrons do, glass do, robots do, factories do.
You have to keep 5,000 things in your brain - these concepts - fitting them all together...
Ultimately it comes down to taste - it comes down to trying to expose yourself to the best stuff humans have done, and then trying to bring those things in to what you're doing.
Picasso said that good artists copy, great artists steal.
We've always been shameless about stealing great ideas.
It's part of what made the Macintosh great, was that the people who were working on it were musicians, poets, artists, zoologists, historians who just happened to be the best computer scientists in the world.
If not for computer science, they would be doing amazing things in other fields.
Scalia and Thomas dine with healthcare law challengers as court takes case
The day the Supreme Court gathered behind closed doors to consider the politically divisive question of whether it would hear a challenge to President Obama's healthcare law, two of its justices, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas, were feted at a dinner sponsored by the law firm that will argue the case before the high court.
The occasion was last Thursday, when all nine justices met for a conference to pour over the petitions for review.
One of the cases at issue was a suit brought by 26 states challenging the sweeping healthcare overhaul passed by Congress last year, a law that has been a rallying cry for conservative activists nationwide.
The justices agreed to hear the suit; indeed, a landmark 5 1/2-hour argument is expected in March, and the outcome is likely to further roil the 2012 presidential race, which will be in full swing by the time the court's decision is released.
The lawyer who will stand before the court and argue that the law should be thrown out is likely to be Paul Clement, who served as U.S. solicitor general during the George W. Bush administration.
Clement's law firm, Bancroft PLLC, was one of almost two dozen firms that helped sponsor the annual dinner of the Federalist Society, a longstanding group dedicated to advocating conservative legal principles.
Another firm that sponsored the dinner, Jones Day, represents one of the trade associations that challenged the law, the National Federation of Independent Business.
Another sponsor was pharmaceutical giant Pfizer Inc, which has an enormous financial stake in the outcome of the litigation.
The dinner was held at a Washington hotel hours after the court's conference over the case.
In attendance was, among others, Mitch McConnell, the Senate's top Republican and an avowed opponent of the healthcare law.
The featured guests at the dinner? Scalia and Thomas.
It's nothing new: The two justices have been attending Federalist Society events for years.
And it's nothing that runs afoul of ethics rules.
In fact, justices are exempt from the Code of Conduct that governs the actions of lower federal justices.
If they were, they arguably fell under code's Canon 4C, which states, "A judge may attend fund-raising events of law-related and other organizations although the judge may not be a speaker, a guest of honor, or featured on the program of such an event."
Nevertheless, the sheer proximity of Scalia and Thomas to two of the law firms in the case, as well as to a company with a massive financial interest, was enough to alarm ethics-in-government activists.
"This stunning breach of ethics and indifference to the code belies claims by several justices that the court abides by the same rules that apply to all other federal judges," said Bob Edgar, the president of Common Cause.
"The justices were wining and dining at a black-tie fundraiser with attorneys who have pending cases before the court."
Their appearance and assistance in fundraising for this event undercuts any claims of impartiality, and is unacceptable.
Scalia and Thomas have shown little regard for critics who say they too readily mix the business of the court with agenda-driven groups such as the Federalist Society.
And Thomas" wife, Ginni, is a high-profile conservative activist.
Moreover, conservatives argue that it's Justice Elena Kagan who has an ethical issue, not Scalia and Thomas.
Kagan served as solicitor general in the Obama administration when the first legal challenges to the law were brought at the trial court level.
Her critics have pushed for Kagan to recuse herself from hearing the case, saying that she was too invested in defending the law then to be impartial now.
Kagan has given no indication she will do so.
Boeing gets record $18-billion jetliner order
Emirates airline orders 50 twin-aisle Boeing 777 jetliners with an option for 20 more.
Boeing also sells six Boeing Dreamliners to Oman Air, a deal worth more than $1 billion.
It's rarely news when a company gets an order for 50 units of its product.
But it's a big deal when the company is airplane-maker Boeing Co. and the list price for those 50 airplanes totals a record $18 billion.
Just as big is where Boeing got the order: the Middle East, a growing gold mine of future airplane orders.
In a forecast released Monday, the Chicago company estimates that airlines in the Middle East over the next 20 years will need 2,520 airplanes worth $450 billion.
Boeing over the weekend announced its biggest-ever order by dollar value for commercial airplanes - 50 twin-aisle Boeing 777 jets.
The blockbuster order came from Emirates airline in Dubai.
The airline also has an option to buy 20 more planes, which would push the total list price to $26 billion, Boeing announced at the 2011 Dubai Air Show.
Then on Monday, Boeing said Oman Air ordered six Boeing 787-8s, the so-called Dreamliner, which boasts dramatically better fuel economy and passenger amenities.
List price for six of those is more than $1 billion.
"This is clearly a huge positive for Boeing," Morningstar analyst Neal Dihora said.
"The quality of these particular customers is pretty strong."
Many Middle East airlines are owned by their oil-producing nations.
So, not only do they have the money to pay for planes, but a surge in fuel prices - usually damaging to airlines because it's one of their biggest costs - is not as detrimental because the country is making money on the higher price of oil.
That's important because they will be less likely than other airlines to cancel or delay airplane orders when fuel prices rise, Dihora said.
"They have a natural hedge," he said.
The Emirates order solidifies Boeing's lead in the market for wide-body planes and helps hold at bay competitor Airbus SAS' attempt to encroach on its dominance with the A350 airliner.
Boeing's win at the air show comes four months after Airbus said it would push back the debut of the largest A350, which competes directly with the 777-300ER.
It delayed the debut to add more thrust after customers demanded more payload and range.
Boeing Co shares rose 1.5% to $67.94.
Mexico president's sister apparently defeated in Michoacan vote
Luisa Maria Calderon alleges that drug traffickers helped opponent Fausto Vallejo of the PRI in the governor's race.
President Felipe Calderon's sister appears to have lost her bid for governor of Michoacan during violent state elections, and she alleged Monday that drug traffickers helped tip the race in favor of one of her opponents.
Preliminary results gave the lead in the race for governor of the western state to Fausto Vallejo of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI.
"The intervention by organized crime during the entire election process and especially yesterday is alarming, not just for Michoacan but for the entire country," Luisa Maria Calderon said in a radio interview a day after Sunday's vote.
"They threatened our candidates, our poll workers.... They seized ballot boxes, set up roadblocks ... and ordered people to vote" for the PRI.
The PRI ruled Mexico for seven decades until losing the presidency in 2000.
But it is staging a comeback, and victory in Michoacan is an important step in that effort.
The PRI is hoping to win the presidential election in July.
Vallejo appears to have only narrowly edged out Calderon, who had led polls before election day.
Calderon, a candidate for her brother's conservative National Action Party, or PAN, refused to recognize Vallejo as the winner.
Silvano Aureoles, the candidate for the leftist Democratic Revolution Party, or PRD, which currently holds the governorship, came in third, a bad defeat for the divided and hapless left ahead of the 2012 presidential vote.
Aureoles also refused to recognize the preliminary results.
Vallejo, former mayor of the state capital of Morelia, denied ties to drug traffickers and urged the other candidates to accept the results.
Michoacan has long been dominated by drug cartels specializing in marijuana, heroin and methamphetamines.
It is President Calderon's home state, and he chose Michoacan to launch a military-led offensive against traffickers in December 2006.
Yet violence has persisted.
A PAN mayor was assassinated a week before the election as he campaigned for Luisa Maria Calderon, and numerous candidates quit local races out of fear.
For the PRI, though, however nasty the Michoacan election looks, a win will help the party's momentum.
The man expected to represent the PRI in the presidential race, Enrique Pena Nieto, speaking from Washington, congratulated Vallejo and said, "I think this victory should be very encouraging, looking ahead to next year."
ADB urges Asia to help rescue eurozone
The Asian Development Bank has called for India and China to be ready to help rescue the eurozone from its sovereign debt crisis to avoid a long-term downturn that will stunt the growth of Asian economies.
Rajat Nag, the managing director of the Manila-based ADB, said the world's two fastest-growing large economies had to "do all they can" to speed the recovery of the the currency bloc either through the International Monetary Fund or direct bilateral arrangements.
He warned against Bric [Brazil, Russia, India, China] countries looking at Europe's difficulties in a "dispassionate way" and said that Asian financial assistance alongside European leadership and resources would help avoid a long-term breakdown in the global economy.
"We are all in this together."
"So anybody who can help Europe get out of the crisis is useful," he told the Financial Times in an interview on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Mumbai.
"Asia may be shielded to some extent but it cannot be immune."
"So if China and India can help, by all means."
Europe's monetary union has been badly undermined by a sovereign debt crisis in past months.
In recent days, Italy's borrowing costs have soared dangerously and the prime ministers of both Italy and Greece have resigned.
The unfolding sovereign debt crisis in Europe has raised fears that it could push the global economy back into recession and prompted calls for leading emerging economies to band together to help the eurozone find a solution.
Mr Nag predicted that any Asian support would be channelled through the IMF, but said bilateral assistance -- like buying the bonds of the EU's bail-out fund, the European financial stability facility -- offered greater bargaining power to Europe's Asian partners.
Anand Sharma, India's minister of trade, said that "India will do whatever it can" to help the eurozone as its own economy was now suffering falling exports and a drying up of foreign capital inflows.
"Nobody wants the eurozone to remain unstable and turbulent," he said.
"We have monumental challenges and we have to sustain a high level of growth."
"It is not an option, it is an imperative, because where do we find employment for tens of millions of our young men and women."
Others argue that developing economies like India have no business helping wealthy Europeans when they face their own profound economic challenges.
Ashutosh Varshney, a professor at Brown University in the US, said it would be politically very difficult to sell assistance to Europe to India's 1.2bn people, of whom as many as 800m live on about $2 a day or less.
"Sometime they will find out that Greeks retire at the age of 50 and go on holiday to beaches and it won't go down well," he said.
Lee Howell, the managing director of the World Economic Forum, likewise questioned why India's reserves should be used to keep Greece's numerous and well-paid public sector workers in jobs in poorly managed, loss-making utilities like the railways.
Mr Nag said that the eurozone crisis threatened "significant knock-on effects" across Asia.
The ADB's forecast of 7.5 per cent economic growth in Asia for 2011/12 now faced "risks on the downside" because of the threat from Europe.
He said vulnerable emerging markets needed to make "contingency plans" to protect themselves from a downturn and significant capital outflows from their economies.
Dire warnings from Pentagon over potential defense cuts
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta turned up the heat on Congress Monday, warning that looming automatic budget cuts would undermine national security and set off a financial chain reaction from the hallways of the Pentagon, to the battlefields of Afghanistan, to civilian assembly lines.
The Pentagon already is digesting $450 billion of reductions over the next decade but now fears an additional $600 billion or more in cuts may be imminent if Congress cannot reach a deal on spending.
"The impacts of these cuts would be devastating for the department," Panetta said in a letter to Sens. John McCain, R-Arizona, and Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina.
He said that congressional failure to reach a budget agreement and the resulting so-called sequestration would trigger 23% across-the-board reductions and a halt to many new projects.
"Such a large cut, applied in this indiscriminate manner, would render most of our ship and construction projects unexecutable -- you cannot buy three quarters of a ship or a building -- and seriously damage other modernization efforts," Panetta wrote to the senators.
"We would also be forced to separate many of our civilian personnel involuntarily and, because the reduction would be imposed so quickly, we would almost certainly have to furlough civilians in order to meet the target."
"These changes would break faith with those who maintain our military and seriously damage readiness."
The cuts would eventually hit combat troops, Panetta said.
"While wartime funding in the Overseas Contingency Operations accounts is not directly affected by the sequester, war efforts would be adversely affected by the severe disruption in the base budgets," Panetta warned.
"Contracting personnel would be cut, resulting in delays in the contracts and the contract oversight that support the war."
"Payroll personnel would be cut, resulting in late payments to wartime vendors, and legal and policy support would be disrupted."
The two senators had written Panetta 10 days ago, asking for details of the potential impact of the automatic cuts on the Defense Department.
"The consequence of a sequester on the Defense Department would set off a swift decline of the United States as the world's leading military power."
"We are staunchly opposed to this draconian action," the senators said in a joint statement Monday afternoon when they released Panetta's letter.
"This is not an outcome that we can live with, and it is certainly not one that we should impose on ourselves."
"The sequester is a threat to the national security interests of the United States, and it should not be allowed to occur."
Whether the Panetta letter and the fresh warnings from Senators will increase pressure for a budget compromise or step up calls to exempt the Pentagon from cuts remains to be seen.
Panetta has been increasingly outspoken about the possible cuts, although he came to the top Pentagon job with years of budget expertise himself in Congress and the White House and knowing that he was facing tough choices.
At a news conference last week, the secretary of defense painted a bleak picture of what could lie ahead -- a military with a shell but no core.
"It's a ship without sailors."
"It's a brigade without bullets."
"It's an air wing without enough trained pilots."
"It's a paper tiger, an Army of barracks, buildings and bombs without enough trained soldiers able to accomplish the mission," Panetta said in his opening remarks at the Pentagon.
"It's a force that suffers low morale, poor readiness and is unable to keep up with potential adversaries."
"In effect, it invites aggression.."
In an addendum to his letters to McCain and Graham, Panetta spelled out new specifics of how reductions "generate significant operational risks: delay response time to crises, conflicts, and disasters; severely limits our ability to be forward deployed and engaged around the world; and assumes unacceptable risk in future combat operations."
And Panetta said that some of the biggest defense projects could face the ax, including those already being tested and some just in early stages of planning.
That list included the F35 Joint Strike Fighter, a planned new bomber, the next-generation ballistic submarine, the new littoral combat ship and the new ground combat vehicle the Army and Marines need to replace the humvee.
Halting further development and testing the F35 could generate some $80 billion in savings over 10 years but its supporters say it is a vital next step to upgrade and meet potential threats from China and other rivals.
How to spot a lie
A glance at recent headlines indicates just how serious and pervasive deceit and lying are in daily life.
Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain is busy trading allegations of sexual harassment with several women; each side accuses the other of lying.
Administrators at Penn State have been charged with perjury for allegedly covering up reports that a retired football coach was sexually assaulting boys.
Last week French president Nicolas Sarkozy was caught on an open microphone asserting to U.S. President Barack Obama that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is a liar.
Lying has destroyed careers and convulsed countries.
New York congressman and Internet flasher Anthony Weiner made a fool of himself issuing denials quickly contradicted by incontrovertible evidence.
Former presidential candidate John Edwards has been charged with campaign finance violations connected to the cover-up of an extramarital affair.
And then again, no one who lived through it will ever forget the media circus President Bill Clinton unleashed by lying during his second term in office about his sexual involvement with Monica Lewinsky.
Tales of cheating on school and college tests are rife.
There have been instances where teachers have given students test answers in order to make themselves look good on their performance reviews.
Mentors who should be teaching the opposite are sending a message that lying and cheating are acceptable.
How much deceit do we encounter?
On a given day, studies show, you may be lied to anywhere from 10 to 200 times.
Now granted, many of those are white lies.
Another study showed that strangers lied three times within the first 10 minutes of meeting each other.
Detecting lies, or "lie spotting," is an essential skill for everyone to acquire, for both personal and professional reasons.
Far from being a parlor game similar to, say, charades, where the object is to exclaim, "Gotcha," deception detection is a serious branch of knowledge based on scientific data collected over the last six decades at prestigious universities conducting in-depth research projects, especially in psychology and physiology.
One result of the research is that most old myths about lying have been debunked.
Liars do look you in the eye.
They do not always stutter, stammer, blush or fidget.
Don't conclude from this that liars are hard to spot and difficult to unmask.
A trained lie spotter can get to the truth by learning about statement structure, facial micro-expressions, question formation and timing.
I spent several years surveying the scientific findings in the vast and ever emerging body of knowledge on deception, and it is clear that deception detection is a modern skill that is easy to learn and helpful in navigating our complex world -- especially if your professional responsibilities include hiring, interviewing, negotiating or managing.
Good liars are skilled at reading others well, putting them at ease, managing their own emotions and intuitively sensing how others perceive them.
We know from research that extroverts lie more than introverts, that men tell more "self-oriented" lies while women tell more "other-oriented" lies -- usually to protect someone's feelings -- that married people lie less frequently to their partners than unmarried people do (but the lies they do tell tend to be "whoppers").
We also know that if you are perceived as a wrongdoer, others will feel less guilt in lying to you.
How do you tell if someone is lying?
First, observe your subject's normal behavior.
This is called "baselining."
It helps provide a reference point for measuring changes later.
Observe your subject's posture, laugh, vocal quality.
You'd better know if someone normally taps their foot all the time so you don't make unjust accusations when you see foot-tapping in the middle of the meeting.
Then look for clusters of deceptive verbal and nonverbal behaviors.
Consider these clusters red flags, not proof of deception.
Deceptive people might freeze their upper body when trying to remember their story, they might point their feet toward the door, lean toward an exit, shift their posture in significant ways or exhibit "post-interview relief" -- that exaggerated exhale of relief and shift in posture when all the hard questions are over.
Interrogators often falsely signal that an interview is over just to look for that post-interview relief.
Also, pay attention to your subject's language.
Scott Peterson famously slipped and used the past tense while claiming his murdered wife was alive, launching a nationwide search for her.
Deceptive individuals might also use distancing language: " I did not have sexual relations with that woman ... Miss Lewinsky" or repeat a hard question in its entirety.
The most common verbal indicators are subtle.
Someone might use lots of "qualifying language" when answering a hard question: " Well ... to tell you the truth ... as far as I know ... to the best of my knowledge."
This renders the answer perceptual rather than factual and is often a red flag.
There's no magic bullet for detecting lies, but developing skills to ferret out deception is possible.
These skills will enhance anyone's chances of avoiding victimization by scam artists in their professional and personal lives.
Controversial Oil Pipeline Plan to Be Rerouted After Threat of Delayed U.S. Approval
Days after the Obama administration threatened to delay approval of a planned oil pipeline from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico -- angering unions while appeasing environmentalists -- the company seeking to build the pipeline says it's willing to reroute the project to get it back on track.
TransCanada said Monday evening it will move the planned pipeline out of the environmentally sensitive Sandhills area of Nebraska, and is confident the project will still win approval.
The company announced the decision at a news conference at the Nebraska Capitol.
TransCanada official Alex Pourbax says the company remains confident it will eventually get a pipeline approved, albeit with a different route.
That comes after the State Department's announcement last week that it would delay a decision on a federal permit for the project until it studies new potential routes that avoid the Sandhills areas of Nebraska and the Ogallala aquifer, a vast underground water supply.
"This is a real path forward," Rep. Lee Terry, a Republican from Nebraska, told Fox News.
The new environmental review ordered by the State Department likely would push off any decision until 2013, after next year's elections, though officials denied that politics was involved in the decision.
Obama, in a written statement last week, described the decision as the State Department's call, and expressed support for it.
The 1,700-mile pipeline would extend from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico.
It would carry 700,000 barrels per day from the province of Alberta to refineries in Texas.
To do so would require it crossing six states.
It is hated by environmentalists but loved by labor groups, who have banked on the estimated 20,000 jobs tied to the pipeline.
But Nebraska lawmakers opposed to the plan are weighing legislation to force a move away from the Sand Hills region and Ogallala aquifer, a major source of drinking water and irrigation.
The State Department's current Environmental Impact Study found the project would pose only limited adverse environmental impacts, but the energy industry source said the department's inspector general has ordered a separate probe of the review process, centering on two questions.
One is whether a lobbyist hired by TransCanada, Paul Elliott, who was a campaign adviser to Hillary Clinton in 2008, represents a conflict of interest for the program.
The other is whether a firm that was hired to conduct the original study was an inappropriate choice because it was tied to TransCanada.
Patti LaBelle Sued for Allegedly Causing Toddler to Vomit out of Fear
A New York family claims that disco diva Patti LaBelle launched into a rampage in the lobby of their Manhattan building, terrifying their toddler daughter to the point where she threw up in fear.
The "Lady Marmalade" singer's tirade frightened 18-month-old Genevieve Monk so badly that she suffered "personality changes, sleep disorder" and "increased fear of strangers," her family says in the Manhattan Supreme Court suit.
It was Nov. 10 of last year when stagehand Kevin Monk, his kindergarten-teacher wife, Roseanna, and Genevieve were getting ready to go on a family trip.
While Kevin Monk got the car, Roseanna Monk came down to the lobby of their Riverside Boulevard building with their luggage, carrying Genevieve.
Roseanna Monk said she stopped near the door and put her daughter down for a moment.
"Someone came up behind me and said, "Do you know what your daughter is doing?" I said "yes" and went to pick her up," she said.
LaBelle angrily admonished the pregnant woman.
"She said in an aggressive tone, "You shouldn't have left your daughter by the door,"" Roseanna Monk said.
"I told her, "I have no interest in what you say or think.'"
She became enraged and started using profanities -- the C-word and the F-word in a loud voice ...
She had a bottle of water and started flicking water from the bottle on me.
She said Genevieve got hysterical.
"I said to this woman, "Look what you've done to my daughter,"" the child's mother said.
LaBelle lunged at the mom -- who was still holding Genevieve -- and had to be restrained by her entourage and pulled out to a waiting car, Roseanna Monk said.
The tot was crying so hard that she vomited, she added.
Later, the family sent a note asking for an apology from LaBelle but got no response.
LaBelle's lawyer and representatives did not return calls for comment.
The suit seeks unspecified damages, but the family's lawyer, Sam Davis, said he took the case for free and that the family plans to donate any money it gets to a children's cancer charity.
"The purpose is to hold Patti LaBelle responsible for her conduct," Davis said.
"That kind of behavior is completely unacceptable, especially when aimed at a kindergarten teacher carrying an 18-month-old child."
Norway's rakfisk: Is this the world's smelliest fish?
Norway's five million people enjoy one of the highest standards of living, not just in Europe, but in the world.
Could the secret of the country's success be connected to the local appetite for some exceedingly smelly fish?
Take a selection of over-ripe cheeses.
Place them in the midst of a pile of dirty, wet soccer kit.
Leave for a week.
Now you have the nose-numbing smell of rakfisk, one of the great Norwegian delicacies.
I am in the small town of Fagernes, about three hours from Oslo.
There is snow, spectacular scenery - and that odour, ever present, hangs in the air.
Rakfisk is trout sprinkled with salt and fermented in water for - depending on how smelly you like your fish - up to a year.
As the dark sets in and the weather turns cold, Norwegians flock to a festival here in Fagernes devoted to this most, well, captivating of foods.
"You eat it raw, and then swallow a glass of aquavit," says Havard Halvarsen, full-time local firefighter but also the so-called "Rakfisk General," in charge of running the festival.
All around us people are eating little cubes of the fish and knocking back quantities of drink.
"Some people like the aquavit more than the rakfisk," says Havard.
The drink can kill the smell.
I try a few pieces.
If you can avoid passing it under your nose, it is not bad - not unlike a slice of sushi that has been on rather a long bus journey.
Rakfisk is a product of very different, poverty-stricken times in Norway when, pre-refrigeration, fish was soaked in airtight barrels of water and salt in autumn.
Then in the depths of winter, well and truly fermented, it is taken out and - no doubt with the senses knocked out by alcohol - eaten.
Only a generation ago, thousands of Norwegians were forced to leave their country in search of work, emigrating mainly to the US.
Now the population is expanding fast - more than 13% are immigrants, attracted by plentiful jobs, high wages and a comprehensive care system.
People from Sweden, the old rival and not so long ago far richer than Norway, stream in to work.
Rakfisk is seen as signifying something important, a vital if rather smelly part of Norway's past.
It is among the more expensive dishes you can buy.
But then everything is expensive - a small glass of beer or a sandwich knock you back £9 ($14) each.
Norway does not often make it on to the global news agenda - and most seem to like it that way.
People here are still loath to mention by name Anders Breivik, the right-wing, racist extremist who gunned down and killed 77 men, women and children last year.
Instead, the shootings are referred to as "the July the 22nd incident."
Norwegians find it very difficult to believe that in their peace-loving country one of their own was capable of such brutality and murder.
The growth since the early 1970s of one of the world's biggest oil and gas industries lies behind much of Norway's present-day wealth.
"But oil is not the only reason we are doing so well," says Anna our waitress, handing round trays of maturing rakfisk and, with her long blond hair and startlingly blue eyes, the image of Nordic well-being.
We are a - how you say - prudent people.
Her English, like that of most people here, is flawless.
We are not very showy, we do not like ostentation.
Norway has handled its oil wealth very carefully - all but a small percentage of money from the industry is invested in a special fund for the benefit of future generations.
When everyone else was throwing around money they did not have, in the years leading up to the global financial crash, Norway kept its purse strings tightly bound.
"As long as we can ski in winter and go hiking in summer we are happy," says Anna.
"And eat rakfisk," she adds with a carefree laugh.
I stand in the snow and queue for something to eat - I have had enough rakfisk.
Now an elk burger is certainly something different and rather succulent to the taste.
But in the evening, it is more of that smelly fish.
The hotel I am staying in is one of a number of venues hosting a rakfisk dinner where guests vote on the best - or perhaps the most nasally challenging - fish.
There is a live TV link up to a compere in a bow tie surrounded by plates of rakfisk.
It is like the Eurovision song contest.
"What score do you have for the best fish up there in the mountains Thor-Juergen?"
"Here are our points, Havard."
There is clapping, laughter.
A man falls off his chair, perhaps overcome with aquavit.
Or maybe it is the fumes from all that fish.
Mexico's Enrique Pena Nieto faces tough start
As Mexico's incoming President Enrique Pena Nieto prepares to take office, the BBC's Will Grant looks at the challenges facing him and the mixed expectations of his population.
Traffic in Mexico City is particularly bad at present.
A congested city at the best of times, a ring of steel has been erected since Monday cutting off several key routes into the capital and causing chaos on the roads.
The aim, however, wasn't to stop commuters getting to work but prevent protesters from reaching parliament.
On Saturday, Mexico's new president Enrique Pena Nieto will receive the presidential sash and take over the running of the nation.
He faces a complicated task.
Mexico has been performing well economically under the outgoing administration of Felipe Calderon, but the country is in the grip of a drug war, which has already claimed an estimated 60,000 lives in six years.
"My government has a great commitment to the Mexican people to reduce the violence," Mr Pena Nieto told US President Barack Obama in the Oval Office earlier this week.
I will be proposing a new security strategy which will allow us to achieve that aim.
Before rubbing shoulders with the US president, Mr Pena Nieto's previous political experience was as governor of his home state, the State of Mexico.
A populous, sprawling state surrounding the capital, opinions about the new leader are divided in his old stomping ground.
A straightforward man
In the bucolic town of Valle del Bravo, for example, he is remembered fondly.
Residents credit him with boosting tourism in the resort and building infrastructure.
To reach the town you can drive along one of Mr Pena Nieto's new motorways, a vast improvement on the cracked and bumpy roads it replaced.
Plaques bearing his name also hang outside a modern sports centre and an impressive interactive museum about climate change.
"We are looking to him to bring about real and lasting change," says friend and political ally Gabriel Olvera Hernandez, a state congressman for Mr Pena Nieto's party, the PRI.
Particularly in terms of security and the economy, we're hoping for an interesting and true change which our country so badly needs.
After an unbroken 81 years in power, the PRI was ousted in 2000 by Vicente Fox.
Congressman Olvera admits that after 12 years outside the presidential palace of Los Pinos, there is much expectation within the party about Enrique Pena Nieto.
And he rejects the opposition's characterisation of the new president as lacking substance.
He's a very straightforward man, very committed with an excellent vision of the country.
He's an excellent statesman and, above all, he's someone who knows how to listen.
But on the other side of the state, that is not the impression many people have of their former governor.
In Nezahualcoyotl, also known as Ciudad Neza, the contrast with the cobbled streets of Valle del Bravo couldn't be sharper.
Tucked away under motorway flyovers, it is in many ways a suburb of Mexico City itself.
And the problems in the municipality are also gritty and urban.
Earlier this year, the military was called in to help tackle the drug gangs operating in the neighbourhoods, and violence against women is particularly acute.
On a patch of wasteland by a vast landfill site, the bodies of dozens of murdered women have been dumped over the past two years alone.
More than 1,000 women were killed in Mexico State while Mr Pena Nieto was governor, a rate much higher than in the notoriously violent city of Ciudad Juarez - a place synonymous with the murder of innocent women.
Mr Pena Nieto's critics say, at best, he failed to adequately address the problem of femicide while he was in office.
At worst, they accuse his administration of turning a blind eye.
In a concrete home typical of the rundown neighbourhood, Irinea Buendia struggles to fight back the tears as she shows me photos of her late daughter, Mariana Luna.
According to the official version of events, Mariana committed suicide in 2010.
However her family believes she was murdered by her partner.
"When I arrived at her house it seemed her body had been washed," Senora Buendia recalls.
There were signs she'd been beaten, and rigor mortis had already set in.
As her mother recounts the story, a picture of Mariana looks down from the walls, next to a cross bearing a single word: Justice.
However, that is exactly what the family say they have been denied.
The state authorities have treated me like I'm an old gossip, a trouble-maker, a whiner.
What they want is that one simply accepts what they say and shuts up.
"But that can't be right when there were so many irregularities and omissions," she says.
As President Pena Nieto receives the sash on Saturday, it comes with a heavy responsibility.
Tens of thousands of families have been affected by violent crime in Mexico over the past six years and the new president has promised to make them a priority during his time in office.
"I hope he's the same kind of president as he was a governor," says PRI Congressman Olvera in Valle del Bravo.
That, however, is exactly what victims' families in Ciudad Neza most fear.
Bradley Manning didn't complain about mistreatment, prosecutors contend
Prosecutors try to counter Bradley Manning's claims of abuse in confinement
The hearing focuses on Manning's time in the military brig at Quantico, Virginia
Defense wants case dismissed on grounds that Manning's confinement was harsh
The Army private is accused of stealing thousands of classified documents
Prosecutors tried to establish Friday that Army private Bradley Manning -- charged in the largest leak of classified material in U.S. history -- missed multiple opportunities to complain about the mistreatment he's alleging he suffered in military custody.
While cross-examining Manning at a pre-trial hearing at Ft. Meade, Maryland, prosecutor Maj. Ashden Fein asserted that records of weekly visits Manning had with unit officers during nine months of detention at Quantico, Virginia, show no complaints about his treatment.
The cross-examination -- during a hearing on a defense motion to have Manning's case dismissed on grounds that his confinement has been harsh and has amounted to enough punishment -- came a day after Manning testified that he had considered suicide while in custody.
The Army intelligence analyst, arrested in June 2010, is accused of stealing thousands of classified documents while serving in Iraq.
The material was then published online by WikiLeaks.
WikiLeaks has never confirmed that Manning was the source of its information.
In Friday's hearing, Fein reviewed with Manning the forms that officers filled out after meeting with Manning during his detention at Quantico's brig, where he was held under a heightened confinement status from July 2010 to April 2011.
Officers would ask Manning questions and write down his responses.
When Fein asked about the forms Friday, Manning acknowledged that he rated treatment by his guards as "excellent" and treatment by the facility overall as "very professional."
The forms show no complaints of mistreatment, even though the officers asked Manning directly about his treatment, Fein contended.
Manning responded that he would verbally express concern about issues and that the visiting officers would talk through the concerns and indicate that they would be addressed, but they didn't record the issues.
"They would write down 'no issues' (after discussing the concerns), and it didn't necessarily mean I didn't bring something up," Manning said.
The judge, Army Col. Denise Lind, also asked Manning why he didn't complain about his treatment during a January 2011 meeting with a board examining the suicidal thoughts he expressed in a form months earlier.
Manning replied that his intention during that meeting was to get his "prevention of injury" status downgraded.
The military said they put him on this restrictive status -- a step below suicide watch -- for his protection and the safety of others.
"I wanted staff to know I was fine, and (I wanted to) get off the POI status ... to enjoy an increased quality of life from my viewpoint," Manning said.
Manning testified Thursday about his arrest in Iraq and his transfer to Kuwait, where he was held for nearly two months before being transferred to the brig at Marine Base Quantico in Virginia in July 2010.
He said he contemplated suicide in Kuwait and once passed out there due to the heat.
He said not being allowed to know what was happening to him or in the outside world was distressing.
"My world just shrink to Camp Arafjon, to that cage," Manning said Thursday.
I thought I was going to die in that cage.
Once at Quantico, Manning said, he spend most days in a small cell -- at least 21 hours and often more than 23 hours -- with no company.
Manning said he was allowed only a mattress, blanket, flip-flops, some clothes and his glasses.
He said he tried to keep moving, because sleeping during the day or even lying down was against the rules.
Manning said he always slept with light from outside his cell in his eyes.
If guards could not see his face when he rolled over at night, he said they would wake him to roll back over.
Manning's lawyer filed a formal objection to Manning's treatment in January 2011.
Manning was moved to the military prison at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, in April 2011.
Also Friday, the judge asked Manning about an allegation that he made in Thursday's testimony -- that after being forced to sleep naked one night in his Quantico cell, he was forced to stand naked in front of guards and other inmates during a morning head count.
Manning had testified that he was never given a chance to cover himself with his blanket during the head count.
Under questioning from the judge Friday, Manning said that he inferred from his guard's order that he should drop a blanket that could have covered him, but he acknowledged that no one had ordered him to drop it.
Manning testified Thursday that he was forced to sleep naked the previous night because of his attempt to show an officer that he wasn't a danger to himself.
Manning said that he told the officer that he could have used the waistband of his underwear or his flip-flops to hurt himself but hadn't done so.
That night, Manning testified, his underwear, flip-flops and glasses were removed from his cell.
His lawyers hope the judge will at least take his experiences during confinement into account and sharply reduce his sentence should he be convicted at his court-martial, which is expected to begin early next year.
The defense has said it plans to have Manning plead guilty to lesser offenses and fight other charges as being too extreme.
The hearing is scheduled to resume this weekend, with prosecutors expected to argue that the detention conditions were warranted.
The Pentagon has maintained that Manning was held in accordance with rules governing all maximum-custody detainees at Quantico.
Counts against Manning include aiding the enemy, wrongfully causing intelligence to be published on the Internet, transmitting national defense information and theft of public property or records.
If he's convicted on all counts, he could face a life sentence.
My Mexican-American identity crisis
He says many were forced to leave Mexico because of the lack of opportunities there
Mexicans tend to fault those who left; they remind Mexicans of hard times, he says
Navarrette says Mexican-Americans are caught between two worlds
On a recent trip to Mexico City, I had barely made my way down the concourse and arrived at the immigration processing area when I got stumped.
Signs pointed the way to two lines: one for "Mexicanos" ("Mexicans"), another for "Extranjeros" ("Foreigners.")
I stood there for a few seconds, unsure of where to go.
Growing up in Central California, I had been called a "Mexican" my entire life.
It's ethnic shorthand in the same way that my friends in Boston refer to themselves as "Irish" or my friends in New York describe themselves as "Italian."
Later, I settled on "Mexican-American."
But, this was Mexico.
And, in the homeland of my grandfather, there was no need for shorthand or hyphens.
I was simply an American.
I speak Spanish, good enough to handle either end of an interview in that language.
But I don't have the vocabulary of a native, and I can't shake my American accent.
So I took my U.S. passport and got in the line for Extranjeros.
I thought about that moment this week when Mexican president-elect Enrique Pena Nieto visited the White House to meet with President Obama.
On the agenda, as usual, when the leaders of these two countries meet: immigration, drugs and trade.
Pena Nieto was also eager to talk about the growth of the Mexican economy, which is one reason that Mexicans are now just as likely to stay in Mexico as venture to the United States.
He wants to partner with the United States and Canada, and create a European Union-style trading bloc in North America.
And Pena Nieto vowed to continue Mexico's war against the drug cartels, even though he offered no specifics.
For Mexico, the relationship with the United States is complicated and filled with hard feelings.
Most Americans probably never give a thought to the fact that, in 1848, the United States invaded Mexico and forced its leaders to sign over half their territory at the point of rifle.
But for Mexicans, who think in terms of centuries, not minutes, the reminders are everywhere.
So the minute that a U.S. official says anything the least bit critical of Mexico, you start hearing -- in the Mexican press, and among the elites -- complaints about how the Americans are encroaching upon their neighbor's sovereignty.
And the children of Montezuma go on the warpath.
And yet, for Mexico, the really challenging relationship is with the more than 35 million Mexican-Americans living in the United States.
You want to talk about hard feelings?
There is plenty.
Mexico has winners and losers, people for whom the country provides opportunities and others for whom it doesn't.
The only reason you have so many people of Mexican ancestry living in cities like Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Phoenix, Denver or San Antonio is because, at some point in our family tree, there was a person, maybe a parent or grandparent, who was shut out from opportunity in Mexico and had to go north.
And more often than not, that person fit a profile -- dark skin, little education, from a poor village, etc.
We're their offspring, and we're loyal to them.
Not Mexico.
And even though we may now be living the American Dream, having gone to good schools and taken good jobs, we can never lose sight of the fact that it's the American Dream we're living, and not the Mexican one.
Our identity might sometimes be fuzzy, but our loyalty is clear.
It's to the United States.
Besides, we're aware that many of the elite Mexicans in the ruling class don't like us.
The feeling is mutual.
They see us as a reminder of a humiliating defeat and look down on us as inferior stock that isn't sufficiently Mexican.
Our Spanish will never be good enough, our ties to Mexico never strong enough.
Our existence is, as they see it, all about failure.
If our families hadn't failed in Mexico, they wouldn't have left.
And we wouldn't now find ourselves trapped behind the silk curtain, living well in the United States but lost souls nonetheless.
My wife, who was born in Guadalajara and came to the United States legally as a child, reminds me that there is friction between Mexicans and Mexican-Americans because Mexicans have a firmer grasp of who they are and Mexican-Americans resent that.
While she's a U.S. citizen, she sees herself as a part of two countries.
Meanwhile, many Mexican-Americans I know don't feel like they're a part of either.
We love listening to the Mexican band, Los Tigres del Norte, but also to Bruce Springsteen.
You get the best of both worlds, but you're rooted in neither.
In Mexico, we're seen as Americans.
And in the United States, we're considered Mexican.
Now, to complicate the relationship even further, as I learned during my trip, some Mexican leaders and parts of the intelligentsia want to reconnect with the Diaspora.
They want to put Mexican-Americans to work as makeshift "ambassadors" for Mexico, representing its interest in the United States.
We would tell our fellow Americans what a great country this is to visit and pressure political leaders to strengthen ties with Mexico.
Yeah.
That's not going to happen.
Too many hard feelings.
And, with income inequality and rampant corruption and drug violence, many of us are not so sure that it is a great country.
I'm afraid you're on your own, amigos.
That's fair.
If at least some Mexicans aren't yet ready to forgive the United States for how it treated Mexico a century and a half ago, then they have to accept the fact that some Mexican-Americans still hold a grudge for how their family members were treated much more recently than that.
Hmmm.
Maybe we're more "Mexican" than I thought.
Old battles, new Middle East
The ceasefire between Israel and Hamas could yet be an unlikely foundation for peace
Can there ever be a lasting peace between Arabs and Jews in the Middle East?
Another round of bloodshed suggests that any such hope is vain.
Amid the usual futile arguments over who started it, scores of buildings have been reduced to rubble; more than 140 Palestinians, most of them civilians, and six Israelis have been killed; and, for the first time, missiles from Gaza have landed near Tel Aviv, Israel's metropolis, and the holy city of Jerusalem.
But though the Israelis and Palestinians seem stuck in their ancient conflict, all around them the Middle East is changing.
The Arab spring has thrown the pieces up in the air, and, like it or not, the Palestinians and Israelis are caught up in the regional turmoil.
Maybe this will make their struggle bloodier than before.
However, there are reasons for thinking it could just break their lethal stalemate.
A war that is neither lost or won
At first sight, optimism looks very hard to justify now.
Even if the ceasefire agreed on November 21st holds, this week's fighting has strengthened the hawks on both sides.
The leaders of Hamas, the Islamist movement that has ruled Gaza since 2007, will claim to have forced the Israelis to back off, even though Gaza has taken a drubbing.
Despite killing some of its leaders and bottling up Gaza's 1.7m people in one of the most wretched and crowded corners of the planet, Israel has failed to destroy Hamas.
Indeed Hamas is gaining on the West Bank, the other bit of Palestine currently run by its bitter rivals in Fatah, the more moderate Palestinian faction.
Moreover, Hamas's leaders may well conclude that time is on their side.
As Islamists across the Arab world have gained clout, so Hamas has made powerful and rich friends.
Turkey, a resurgent regional power that was once Israel's closest Muslim ally, has taken up Hamas's cause; so has Qatar, one of the richest and most dynamic of the Gulf states.
Jubilant Hamas people say an Islamist crescent is curving around Israel, from Lebanon in the north, where the Hizbullah party-cum-militia holds sway, through Syria, where rebels of an increasingly Islamist bent may topple Bashar Assad, and on down through Jordan, where Hamas's allies are menacing the king.
Above all, on Israel's southern flank, the rise of the Muslim Brotherhood under President Muhammad Morsi in Egypt, by far the most populous and pivotal of Arab countries, has changed the region's balance.
Hosni Mubarak, the secular despot who ran Egypt for 30 years until his downfall in 2011, had little time for Hamas.
By contrast, the Brotherhood is a cousin of Hamas, and its leaders are more subject to popular opinion.
In future diplomacy Hamas may emerge as an actor that cannot be shut out even by Israel and America.
Meanwhile, Israel's hardliners will draw the opposite conclusions.
In military terms, Hamas has been put back in its box.
Israel's Iron Dome anti-missile system has proved its worth and many of Hamas's missiles have been destroyed.
Israelis will sleep more soundly - for a while.
In diplomatic terms, America is as steadfast as ever; many European countries also blamed Hamas for starting the latest round of violence.
Above all, Israel has prospered, especially under Binyamin Netanyahu, a prime minister who has largely ignored the peace process.
Although rockets from Gaza have killed around 30 Israelis since 2004, Israel has been fairly free of suicide-bombers, thanks in part to the barrier that bites into the West Bank, the main chunk of a would-be Palestinian state, and protects the Jewish settlements that continue to expand despite their illegality in international law.
Mr Netanyahu, whose Likud party has merged with an even more hawkish lot under Avigdor Lieberman in the run-up to an election on January 22nd, is sitting pretty.
Why coddle those twisty Palestinians by giving them a state of their own?
If they really ran the West Bank, would they not fire rockets, just as their compatriots have done in Gaza?
Better to keep them behind that wall and smite them if they raise their heads.
Maybe the hardliners will win out; yet the Arab spring may change their calculations.
Even if the Islamists taking power in Egypt and elsewhere have little love for Israel, their priority will be tackling difficulties at home.
Israel's defence budget is bigger than that of its four Arab neighbours combined.
Starting a war with the local superpower will hardly help the new Arab governments mend their economies.
That the pragmatic Mr Morsi worked with Barack Obama to obtain a ceasefire augurs well - and might just mark the start of something.
Israelis too should look to the longer term.
With the rest of the Arab world becoming more democratic, depriving Palestinians of their right to self-determination is creating a powder keg that is bound one day to explode in the territories occupied by Israel - much as a bus exploded in Tel Aviv this week.
Repression is already undermining democracy in the Jewish state, and demography exacerbates this as the Arab population swells.
Bloody missions against Gaza every few years to knock back Hamas will exact a growing diplomatic toll.
Both sides need prodding by outsiders
The answer remains the one trumpeted by sensible people on both sides, most of the outside world and this newspaper: two states, with Israel ceding territory for security.
The hope - a small one in the short term - is that the ceasefire will give a little more leverage to outsiders pushing that cause.
Egypt, which must now set about stopping the flow of arms into Gaza, along with Turkey and Qatar, is better placed than ever to persuade Hamas to accept the idea of a Jewish state based on the 1967 boundaries with land swaps and a shared Jerusalem.
Arab outsiders should also press Hamas and Fatah to come together.
That would do more to create a Palestinian state than the imminent bid for virtual statehood at the UN.
Mr Obama also has a part in getting Israel to the table.
During his first term, he neglected to present his own plan for peace.
Back in the White House, he is looking just as reluctant to be drawn in.
This is woefully short-sighted.
America has a vital interest in a stable Middle East.
That means a peace settlement between Israel and the Palestinians.
Cigarette plain packaging laws come into force in Australia
Smoking warnings and diseased body parts emblazoned on dull green boxes that are the same for all tobacco brands
Australia's world-first laws on cigarette and tobacco plain packaging have come into force, replacing brand logos and colours with generic drab olive green coverings, gruesome pictures of diseased body parts and depictions of children and babies made ill by their parents' smoking.
Apart from the varying health warnings and images the only difference between the packs, mandatory from Saturday, are the brand names, and these are all printed in identical small font.
It is the world's most strict regime for the packaging of tobacco.
Australia's federal government says the aim is to deter young people from smoking by stripping the habit of glamour.
It is relying on studies showing that if people have not started smoking by age 26 there is a 99% chance they will never take it up.
"Even from a very early age you can see that kids understand the message that the tobacco company is trying to sell through their branding," said the federal health minister, Tanya Plibersek, citing studies that showed, for example, children linking a crown in a logo with the idea of being a princess.
While Australia has one of the world's lowest smoking rates and the changes will have little impact on multinationals' profits, other countries are considering similar steps.
The tobacco industry lobbied hard against the laws.
Tobacco firms said they would boost black market trade, leading to cheaper, more accessible cigarettes.
"There will be serious unintended consequences from the legislation," said Scott McIntyre of British American Tobacco Australia.
Counterfeiters from China and Indonesia will bring lots more of these products down to sell on the streets of Australia.
Others say the laws have boosted their business.
Sandra Ha of Zico Import Pty Ltd, a small family business, said demand for cigarette cases, silicon covers to mask the unpalatable packages, had shot up from almost nothing two months ago since British American Tobacco, Britain's Imperial Tobacco, Philip Morris and Japan Tobacco lost a challenge to the laws in Australia's high court.
Ha said Zico had sold up to 6,000 to wholesale outlets and was awaiting new stock.
This is good business for us.
The potential hitch, experts say, is the popularity of social media with the very demographic the plan is targeting.
After a series of Australian laws banning TV advertising and sports sponsorship and requiring most sellers to hide cigarettes from view, tobacco marketing has moved online.
Australia has banned web advertising by local companies and sites but cannot restrict overseas sites.
"If you are a tobacco marketer and you've only got this small window left to promote your products, online is the compelling place for you to be in," said Becky Freeman, a public health researcher at Sydney University.
Freeman noted an increase in "average Joe" reviews of brands on social media sites such as YouTube, Twitter and Facebook.
We have to ask, is that just a private citizen who really loves Marlboro cigarettes and they've gone to the trouble of making a video, or is there a marketing company involved?
British American Tobacco Australia said the industry was focused on dealing with the new rules rather than marketing.
The industry has gone as far as paying for Ukraine, Honduras and the Dominican Republic to challenge the new rules - the countries are claiming at the World Trade Organisation that trade is being unfairly restricted, despite none of the countries having significant trade with Australia.
A WTO ruling is likely in mid-2013.
Plibersek said the government had held discussions with other countries considering similar laws on packaging.
Canada was the first country to make photograph warnings mandatory in 2001.
They now extend to more than 40 countries including Brazil, Turkey and Ukraine.
Tougher laws are being considered in Britain, New Zealand, South Africa and India.
Many smokers in Australia remain defiant.
The pictures don't affect me.
I just ignore them.
"You just grab a smoke and put it away," said Victor El Hage as he purchased a pack with a photograph of a mouth tumour.
Honestly, there's only one reason I'd stop, and that's my little girl.
James Yu, who runs the King of the Pack tobacconist in central Sydney, said the uniform packaging made it harder to stack his shelves
"It used to take me an hour to unload a delivery, now it takes me four hours," Yu said.
"The government should have just banned them altogether and then we'd go OK, fine, we're done, we'll shut up shop," he said, throwing his hands up in the air.
In a Constantly Plugged-In World, It's Not All Bad to Be Bored
I spent five unexpected hours in an airport this Thanksgiving holiday when our plane had mechanical difficulties and we had to wait for another plane to arrive.
So I had plenty of time to think about the subject of boredom.
I won't lie to you.
Half a day in an airport waiting for a flight is pretty tedious, even with the distractions of books, magazines and iPhones (not to mention duty-free shopping).
But increasingly, some academics and child development experts are coming out in praise of boredom.
It's all right for us - and our children - to be bored on occasion, they say.
It forces the brain to go on interesting tangents, perhaps fostering creativity.
And because most of us are almost consistently plugged into one screen or another these days, we don't experience the benefits of boredom.
So should we embrace boredom?
Yes.
And no.
But I'll get back to that.
First of all, like many people, I assumed that boredom was a relatively recent phenomenon, with the advent of more leisure time.
Not so, says Peter Toohey, a professor of Greek and Roman history at the University of Calgary in Canada and the author of "Boredom: A Lively History" (Yale University Press, 2011).
"Boredom actually has a very long history," he said.
There's Latin graffiti about boredom on the walls of Pompeii dating from the first century.
Then there's the question of how we define boredom.
The trouble is that it has been defined, and discussed, in many different ways, said John D. Eastwood, an associate professor of psychology at York University in Ontario, Canada.
After looking over the research literature and putting the idea in front of a focus group of about 100 people, Professor Eastwood and his colleagues defined boredom as an experience of "wanting to, but being unable to engage in satisfying activity."
What separates boredom from apathy, he said, is that the person is not engaged but wants to be.
With apathy, he said, there is no urge to do something.
The core experience of boredom, he said, is "disruption of the attention process, associated with a low mood and a sense that time is passing slowly."
Boredom can sound an awful lot like depression.
But Professor Eastwood said that while they can be related, people who are bored tend to see the problem as the environment or the world, while people who are depressed see the problem as themselves.
Sometimes we think we're bored when we just have difficulty concentrating.
In their study, "The Unengaged Mind: Defining Boredom in Terms of Attention," which appeared in the journal Perspectives on Psychological Science in September, Professor Eastwood and his colleagues pointed to an earlier experiment in which participants listened to a tape of a person reading a magazine article.
Some groups heard a loud and unrelated television program in the next room, others heard it at a low level so it was barely noticeable, while the third group didn't hear the soundtrack at all.
The ones who heard the low-level TV reported more boredom than the other two groups - they had difficulty concentrating but were not sure why, and attributed that difficulty to boredom.
When you're trying to focus on a difficult or engaging task, disruption of attention can lead to boredom, said Mark J. Fenske, an associate professor of neuroscience at the University of Guelph in Ontario and one of the authors of the study.
On the other hand, when you're doing something dull, "such as looking for bad widgets on a factory line, distracting music can help you not be bored."
In fact, he said, we now know that squirming and doodling, often seen as a sign of boredom, can actually help combat it by keeping people more physically alert.
"Research shows that kids who are allowed to fidget learn more and retain more information than those who are forced to sit still," Professor Fenske said.
We all experience boredom at some points - my flight delay, a droning speaker, a particularly tedious movie.
But some individuals are more likely to be bored than others.
To help measure this, researchers developed a "Boredom Proneness Scale" in the 1980s.
The scale includes questions like, "Many things I have to do are repetitive and monotonous," and "I have so many interests, I don't have time to do everything."
Using such scales, researchers have discovered that boys tend to be bored more often than girls, said Stephen Vodanovich, a professor of psychology at the University of West Florida, especially when it comes needing more, and a variety of, external stimulation.
But in general, teenagers are a pretty jaded lot.
In 1991, Reed Larson, a professor of human and community development at the University of Illinois, conducted an experiment in which he contacted almost 400 teenagers and their parents seven to eight times a day by beeper.
He found that 32 percent of adolescents said they were bored in school and doing homework, while 23 percent said they were bored when they weren't in school.
On the other hand, 3 percent of parents said they were bored.
Professor Larson said he did not know whether the boredom percentages now, 21 years later, would be higher or lower.
But he said he did know that "adolescence is a peak period for boredom," largely because children and teenagers are not given a lot of control over what they want to do.
So back to my original question: Is boredom good for you?
Sometimes no, because in its extreme it can lead people to take absurd physical risks, gamble or indulge in substance abuse as a way to ease it, research shows.
On the other hand, many philosophers and writers discuss the connection between boredom and creativity, said Professor Vodanovich, who has been studying the issue for more than two decades.
"Boredom is the brain's way to tell you you should be doing something else," said Gary Marcus, a professor of psychology at N.Y.U.
But the brain doesn't always know the most appropriate thing to do.
If you're bored and use that energy to play guitar and cook, it will make you happy.
But if you watch TV, it may make you happy in the short term, but not in the long term.
So if your child is bored and you give him an iPad, he may not be bored anymore, but he hasn't learned how to entertain himself, or self regulate, Professor Fenske said.
And "that self-regulation transfers from one situation to other," he said.
Your kid doesn't just learn to entertain himself, but gets more self-control in other areas.
I don't think we really want to celebrate boredom.
Nor should we be too critical of it.
Rather, our goal should be to feel comfortable away from the constant chatter of activity and technology.
Professor Eastwood agreed.
"We frame it as we need to be bored more, but boredom is an agonizing, restless desire to be connected with something meaningful," he said.
What people are really searching for, he said, is a way to unplug and enjoy down time.
"In an environment where we are constantly overstimulated," he said, "it's hard to find ways to engage when the noise shuts down."
In Colorado, No Playbook for New Marijuana Law
Anthony Orozco, 19, a community college student and soccer player in southeastern Colorado, is facing criminal charges for something that will soon be legal across this state: the possession of a few nuggets of marijuana and a pipe he used to smoke it.
Mr. Orozco said that one day in September he and a few friends were driving in Lamar, on the plains near the Kansas border, when they were pulled over.
After the police officer found marijuana in the car, Mr. Orozco was issued a summons for possession and drug paraphernalia - petty offenses that each carry a $100 fine - and given a court date.
"We get treated like criminals," Mr. Orozco said.
But is he one?
In the uncertain weeks after Colorado's vote to legalize small amounts of marijuana for recreational use, the answer in hundreds of minor drug cases depends less on the law than on location.
Hundreds of misdemeanor marijuana cases are already being dropped here and in Washington State, which approved a similar measure.
Police departments have stopped charging adults 21 years and older for small-scale possession that will be legally sanctioned once the laws take effect in the coming weeks.
But prosecutors in more conservative precincts in Colorado have vowed to press ahead with existing marijuana cases and are still citing people for possession.
At the same time, several towns from the Denver suburbs to the Western mountains are voting to block new, state-licensed retail marijuana shops from opening in their communities.
"This thing is evolving so quickly that I don't know what's going to happen next," said Daniel J. Oates, the police chief in Aurora, just east of Denver.
Regulators in Washington State are also scratching their heads.
And they are looking for guidance on how to set up a system of licenses for production, manufacturing, distribution and sales - all by a deadline of Dec. 1, 2013.
They say that Colorado, for better or worse, is ahead of most states in regulating marijuana, first for medical use and now recreationally.
"Colorado has a more regulated market, so they will be a good guide," said Brian E. Smith, a spokesman for the Washington State Liquor Control Board.
But no place or system, Mr. Smith conceded, can do more than suggest what might work.
"There's no real precedent for us to follow," he said.
Washington's law, called I-502, takes effect on Dec. 6, which also leaves a year of limbo during which the state licensing system will not yet exist, but legalized possession will.
And there are thorny mechanical questions that must be resolved during that time, like how to balance the state's mandate of "adequate access" to licensed marijuana with its prohibitions on cannabis businesses within 1,000 feet of a school, park, playground or child care center.
"Nowhere will it be more difficult to site a licensed cannabis business than in urban areas, particularly in the Seattle metropolitan area," said Ben Livingston, a spokesman for the Center for Legal Cannabis, a recently formed research group.
On Nov. 21, Chief Oates in Aurora sent his officers an e-mail announcing that the city attorney would no longer be prosecuting small marijuana violations for anyone 21 years or older, and that the police would stop charging people for those crimes "effective immediately."
Chief Oates said that the police would enforce city codes regulating medical marijuana growers, and that they would still pursue drug traffickers and dealers.
In northern Colorado's Weld County, the district attorney, Ken Buck, represents a stricter view.
After the vote, he said his office would continue pursuing marijuana possession cases, mostly as a way to press users into getting treatment.
Right now, 119 people face charges of possessing two ounces or less of marijuana, though many are facing other charges.
"Our office has an obligation to prosecute offenses that were crimes at the time they occurred," Mr. Buck said in a statement.
The response has been complicated even in places like rural Mesa County, where voters rejected the marijuana initiative.
The police in Grand Junction, the county's largest city, are no longer citing adults for possession of small amounts.
The county's district attorney, Pete Hautzinger, supported that decision, but also decided not to dismiss all of the pending possession cases.
"I do not think I'm wasting my time continuing to enforce the law until it changes," he said.
Although 55 percent of Colorado voters supported the measure, bringing recreational marijuana into the folds of government and the legal system was never going to be simple.
And the contradictory reactions across the state lay bare a deep ambivalence among local officials about the state's big green experiment.
"It's a cultural barrier" with district attorneys, said Sean McAllister, a Denver lawyer who represents marijuana defendants and is a local spokesman for the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws.
"They spent so much of their lives prosecuting people that they still don't really accept that this is legal," he said.
As the first states to treat small amounts of marijuana like alcohol, Colorado and Washington are poised to become national test cases for drug legalization.
As advocates and state officials plan for a new frontier of legalized sales, they are also anxiously awaiting direction from the federal government, which still plans to treat the sale and cultivation of marijuana as federal crimes.
Advocates for legalized marijuana are hoping the Justice Department yields.
Despite some high-profile arrests of medical marijuana patients and sellers, the federal government has mostly allowed medical marijuana businesses to operate in Colorado, Washington and 16 other states.
While drug agents will probably not beat down doors to seize a small bag of the drug, they are likely to balk at allowing the state-regulated recreational marijuana shops allowed under the new laws, said Kevin A. Sabet, a former drug policy adviser in the Obama administration.
Several cities in Colorado are not waiting for federal authorities to act.
Even before Election Day, some local governments approved moratoriums on any new marijuana shops, even though it will be about a year before any can open.
Last week, the western city of Montrose took up a six-month ban, and is likely to pass it next week.
"We don't want to be put in a position where we license somebody and then have a big federal issue," said Bob Nicholson, a City Council member.
Our community voted against this amendment.
We're looking at what the community voted for versus what the state voted for.
There's an awful lot of questions.
Petronella Wyatt: I was bullied out of Oxford for being a Tory
It is not just today's university students who are attacked for their views
I can't remember a time when I didn't dream of winning a place at Oxford University.
Both my father and my elder brother had been at what I imagined was the world's greatest seat of learning, a modern-day wine-blushed Greek symposium encouraging the dual pillars of civilisation, free thinking and tolerance.
Yet, within two weeks of taking up my place at Worcester College in the late Eighties to read history, I'd packed my bags, precipitating the first scandal of my life.
My father broke down and cried.
Friends were baffled.
The Evening Standard diary claimed I'd quit because I objected to fellow undergraduates having sex in the room next to mine.
The writer A N Wilson announced waggishly that I'd departed because I was forced to drink out of chipped mugs.
The truth was less droll.
I ran away.
Yes, ran, because I had been subject to systematic bullying and intimidation.
Not on account of my rather outré name, or the fact that I came from a private school.
I was persecuted for one reason only, and in this cradle of supposed enlightenment it was both bigoted and barbaric: my father, the late Woodrow Wyatt, was a high-profile adviser to Margaret Thatcher and I was a Conservative supporter.
Why bring this up now, you might ask.
Well, recent reports suggest that a new generation of Right-of-centre students are suffering a similar persecution.
Such is the institutionalised and increasing hatred of Tory students at Oxford that last week a group of them demanded the same equal-rights protection as gays, disabled people and ethnic minorities.
Conservative members of Corpus Christi College's junior common room (JCR) claim they are "often actively isolated, personally attacked and made to feel unwelcome" because of their political views.
They want to create a post on the college's equal opportunities committee to ensure that their opinions can be aired freely.
Their situation wasn't helped by a recent BBC Two documentary, Wonderland: Young, Bright and on the Right, about student politics, which portrayed Tories as oddballs and neo-Nazis.
It featured graduate Joe Cooke, former president of the Oxford University Conservative Association (OUCA), travelling in a Rolls-Royce, sporting a silver suit and silver-topped cane.
At other universities, Conservative students say they are being treated as "scapegoats" for the introduction of higher tuition fees."
Luke Black, 20, vice-president of Nottingham University Conservative Association, told a Sunday newspaper that "there is a growing Left-wing bias at universities.
People assume we are like the Bullingdon Club without meeting us."
Samuel Roberts, 21, a history student at Corpus Christi, who proposed the motion for greater protection, says such a climate is "uncomfortable," while Stephanie Cherill, 19, president elect of OUCA, says there has been a deterioration in the attitude of JCR members towards people who are Right of centre.
"This poses a threat to the atmosphere of intellectual discussion, as well as to the welfare of members," she says.
I was in a minority of one during my first few weeks at Oxford.
I had gone up in September 1986, a cripplingly shy 18-year-old.
Hatred of the Conservative Party was at its most febrile.
The year before, the university had voted to refuse Margaret Thatcher - a former student - an honorary degree, because of cuts in higher education funding.
The atmosphere would have made a Stalinist shudder with apprehension.
During the first few days of freshers" week, when new students socialise with each other and the dons, I had a taste of the wormwood that was to come.
I was to find that the dons not only connived in the taunting of Tory undergraduates but took part with relish.
The politics of the miners" strike, privatisation and the government's opposition to sanctions against apartheid South Africa were brought into the wood-panelled rooms of the tutorial.
My first one involved translating 18th-century French texts into English, and I was unprepared for what followed.
"Miss Wyatt," said the don, Harry Pitt (now deceased), "please translate the first paragraph."
I stumbled over it.
A small man with a face like cake batter, Pitt was big on bile.
"Do Thatcherites refuse to learn French or are they just stupid?" he demanded.
The other undergraduates giggled.
Tears pricked the back of my eyes.
"I suggest you take some basic French lessons in your spare time - that is, if you're not too busy socialising," Pitt snarled.
I walked back to my rooms a disconsolate figure.
At dinner in college that evening I sat by myself; then I felt a light tap on my shoulder.
It was a second-year English student named James who introduced himself as a member of the OUCA.
"I know who you are," he said kindly.
I'm afraid it's like that.
Anyone suspected of being a Tory is picked on.
It's bad enough for me, but they know your father is close to Margaret Thatcher, so it will be worse for you.
Most Tory freshers pretend they're Labour.
Later, at a local pub, I cravenly attempted to dissimulate.
I insisted that I didn't agree with everything Mrs Thatcher said.
This ploy proved unsuccessful.
A first year PPE student, who, ironically, had been to Eton, said: "You're the daughter of a fascist pig."
You're contaminated.
Other students took up the refrain.
I was perverted, dirty.
"How do Tories have sex?" one asked.
They beat each other, don't they?
I felt the way homosexuals must have felt before the liberal legislation of the Sixties.
Would I ever be able to lead a normal life at Oxford?
Would I be forced to meet like-minded people only after dark?
Would I have to turn to Labour and suppress my natural inclinations?
The three years before me stretched out as a purgatory of ostracism and isolation.
The only openly Tory don was Norman Stone, Professor of Modern History, who was based at my college.
He was hated for being not only a Conservative but a foreign policy adviser to Thatcher and one of her speech writers.
He was hardly ever there.
He loathed the place as provincial and petty, and for its adherence to the Marxist-determinist view of history.
In 1997 he took up a professorship at the University of Bilkent, in Ankara, Turkey.
"You won't be happy here," he told me.
I began commuting from Oxford to my parents" house in London, finding refuge with my more open-minded metropolitan friends and family.
I told my father I hated Oxford and why.
He was incredulous.
During his time there in the Forties, all political views had been accepted.
"But it's the best place in the world," he said pathetically.
They wouldn't do that, not among my dreaming spires.
Even my Communist friends always had impeccable manners.
His rheumy eyes began to cloud.
Give it a chance.
I'm sure it's all just a tease.
It would break my heart if you left.
Exhausted by my frequent trips to London, my emotional resistance was deteriorating.
A male friend of mine, also a Tory supporter, had succumbed to pressure and renounced his creed.
During a tutorial the following week, when another history don had suggested, in complete seriousness, that I was an "enemy of the people," I decided to do the same.
Inwardly blushing with shame, I admitted to being "brainwashed by my parents" and called them "old fools."
The respite was short.
It was my father who drove the nail into the coffin of my Oxford career.
At the time, he wrote two columns in the Murdoch press each week.
My door was locked.
I cowered inside, and after five minutes, my pursuers gave up.
When they left, I packed a suitcase and caught the first train to London.
I never went back.
You may call me a snivelling wimp.
But no 18-year-old should be subject to such intimidation and vitriol in an educational institution.
Even more tragic is that it was Oxford, which not only produced 14 Tory prime ministers, but, to this day, hides behind an ill-deserved reputation for equality and freedom of thought.
India and Japan prime ministers meet in Tokyo
India's new prime minister, Narendra Modi, is meeting his Japanese counterpart, Shinzo Abe, in Tokyo to discuss economic and security ties, on his first major foreign visit since winning May's election.
Mr Modi is on a five-day trip to Japan to strengthen economic ties with the third largest economy in the world.
High on the agenda are plans for greater nuclear co-operation.
India is also reportedly hoping for a deal on defence collaboration between the two nations.
Karratha police arrest 20-year-old after high speed motorcycle chase
A motorcycle has been seized after it was ridden at 125km/h in a 70km/h zone and through bushland to escape police in the Pilbara.
Traffic police on patrol in Karratha this morning tried to pull over a blue motorcycle when they spotted it reaching 125km/h as it pulled out of a service station on Bathgate Road.
Police say the rider then failed to stop and continued on to Burgess Road before turning into bushland, causing the officers to lose sight of it.
The motorcycle and a person matching the description of the rider was then spotted at a house on Walcott Way in Bulgarra.
Karratha Police have charged a 20-year-old man with failing to stop and reckless driving.
He is due to appear in Karratha Magistrates Court on September 23.
The motorcycle was seized and impounded for three months.
George Webster accused of Nairn and Pitlochry hotel rapes
A man is to stand trial accused of raping women at two hotels.
George Webster, 28, faced the charges during a hearing at the High Court in Glasgow.
He is alleged to have raped a woman at the Scotland's Hotel in Pitlochry in Perthshire on June 7, 2013.
It is claimed Webster attacked her while she was "unconscious, asleep and incapable of giving consent."
Webster is then charged with raping a second woman at the Golf View Hotel in Nairn in the Highlands on May 4, 2014.
Judge Lady Rae set a trial date for November 17 at the High Court in Edinburgh.
Reconnecting With the Very American Ideal That Labor Rights Are Human Rights
Congressmen Keith Ellison and John Lewis have proposed legislation to protect union organizing as a civil right.
"As go unions, so go middle-class jobs," says Ellison, the Minnesota Democrat who serves as a Congressional Progressive Caucus co-chair.
That's why I'm proud to introduce the Employee Empowerment Act with civil rights icon John Lewis.
This ground-breaking legislation will give workers the same legal options for union organizing discrimination as for other forms of discrimination - stopping anti-union forces in their tracks
Amending the National Labor Relations Act to allow workers who face discrimination for engaging in union organizing to sue for justice in the civil courts - and to collect compensatory and punitive damages - is a sound and necessary initiative.
But it in certainly not a radical initiative - at least by American standards.
Indeed, the best way to understand what Ellison, Lewis and the cosponsors of their legislation are proposing is as a reconnection with a very American idea.
Despite the battering that unions have taken in recent years - in Wisconsin, Michigan and states across the country - Americans once encouraged countries around the world to embrace, extend and respect labor rights.
There was a time, within the living memory of millions of Americans, when this country championed democracy, freedom of speech, freedom of the press and the right to organize in the same breath.
When the United States occupied Japan after World War II, General Douglas MacArthur and his aides encouraged the country to adopt a constitution designed to assure that Hideki Tojo's militarized autocracy would be replaced with democracy.
Fully aware that workers and their unions had a role to play in shaping the new Japan, they included language that explicitly recognized that "the right of workers to organize and to bargain and act collectively is guaranteed."
When the United States occupied Germany after World War II, General Dwight David Eisenhower and his aides urged the Germans to write a constitution that would assure that Adolf Hitler's fascism was replaced with muscular democracy.
Recognizing that workers would need to organize and make their voices heard in the new nation, the Germans included a provision that explicitly declared: "The right to form associations to safeguard and improve working and economic conditions shall be guaranteed to every individual and to every occupation or profession.
Agreements that restrict or seek to impair this right shall be null and void; measures directed to this end shall be unlawful.
When former First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt chaired the International Commission on Human Rights, which drafted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that would in 1948 be adopted by the United Nations as a global covenant, Roosevelt and the drafters included a guarantee that "everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests."
For generations, Americans accepted the basic premise that labor rights are human rights.
When this country counseled other countries on how to forge civil and democratic societies, Americans explained that the right to organize a trade union - and to have that trade union engage in collective bargaining as an equal partner with corporations and government agencies - had to be protected.
Now, with those rights under assault in America, it is wise, indeed, to recommit to the American ideal that working people must have a right to organize and to make their voices heard in a free and open society.
As the Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. said fifty years ago:
History is a great teacher.
Now everyone knows that the labor movement did not diminish the strength of the nation but enlarged it.
By raising the living standards of millions, labor miraculously created a market for industry and lifted the whole nation to undreamed of levels of production.
Those who attack labor forget these simple truths, but history remembers them.
History remembers, as should we.
The formal recognition of labor rights as human rights - and the extension of civil rights protections to prevent discrimination against labor organizing - is long overdue.
Keith Ellison and John Lewis are renewing ideals that have historically enlarged America and made real the promise of democracy.
Judge temporarily blocks law that could close all Louisiana abortion clinics
A U.S. federal judge on Sunday temporarily blocked enforcement of a Louisiana law that advocates say would likely have closed all five abortion clinics in the state.
The measure, signed into law by Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal in June and due to take effect Sept. 1, would require doctors who perform abortions to have patient admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles of their practice.
However, the judge's ruling means that for the time being doctors can continue to perform legal abortions while seeking such privileges.
"Plaintiffs will be allowed to operate lawfully while continuing their efforts to obtain privileges," Federal Judge John deGravelles wrote in the decision.
A hearing will be scheduled within a month for the judge to make a more permanent ruling on the law.
Abortion rights activists applauded the decision, the latest in a string of rulings against similar measures, saying it would give doctors more time to seek hospital privileges.
"Today's ruling ensures Louisiana women are safe from an underhanded law that seeks to strip them of their health and rights," said Nancy Northup, president and chief executive of the Center for Reproductive Rights, which sued to block the law on behalf of three of the state's five clinics.
It was not immediately clear whether the ruling applied to doctors from the two clinics who were not plaintiffs in the suit and have also applied for admitting privileges.
Louisiana is among 11 states that have passed similar laws, with courts recently ruling unconstitutional such measures in Alabama and Mississippi.
Key parts of a Texas law that would have shuttered most remaining clinics in that state were blocked by a federal judge on Friday.
Abortion rights campaigners, along with the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American Medical Association, say admitting privileges laws impose medically unnecessary requirements on doctors.
Anti-abortion advocates have countered that the measures aim to protect women's health, though some have also lauded their effect of shuttering clinics.
Only one doctor who performs abortions in Louisiana has hospital admitting privileges, the Center for Reproductive Rights said.
If all other doctors in the state are forced to stop performing abortions, that doctor, fearful for his safety, would stop carrying out the procedure, the group said.
In arguing against the ruling, Louisiana officials said they would not punish doctors performing abortions while their applications for admitting privileges were pending.
Delayed diagnosis and inability to access best treatment mean ovarian cancer kills more in rural areas
Angelina Jolie and her brother James have posted a video tribute to their late mother who died of Ovarian cancer in 2007.
Women living in rural Australia are at higher risk of dying from ovarian cancer than their city counterparts.
Researchers analysed medical records of more than 1100 Australian women diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2005, finding just 35 per cent lived for five years after diagnosis.
Lead researcher Susan Jordan, of the QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, said those living in regional and remote areas of the state were about 20 per cent more likely to die during the study than those in urban areas.
SMALL STUDY: New drugs may slow lung, ovarian cancer
The researchers tracked the women's medical journeys across seven years.
Dr Jordan said a woman's age at the time of diagnosis, ovarian cancer type, having existing illnesses and socio-economic status also impacted on survival chances.
Older women and those whose cancer was more advanced at the time of diagnosis had the poorest survival rates.
Those living in regional and remote areas of the state were about 20 per cent more likely to die during the study than those in urban areas.
Although the study was not designed to determine why women living outside the city were more likely to die from ovarian cancer, Dr Jordan suggested delayed diagnosis and inability to access best treatment might be factors.
"This disease is best treated by gynaecological oncology surgeons and they're mostly based in major cities," she said.
Despite improving tele-medicine services to lessen the tyranny of distance, she suggested more fly-in, fly-out services to allow specialists to treat women closer to home and programs to support people in treatment away from their communities could help.
Dr Jordan said regardless of geographical status, the study found long-term survival among women with ovarian cancer was poor, reinforcing the need for better treatment and prevention strategies.
The research, funded by the Rio Tinto Ride to Conquer cancer, will be published today in the Medical Journal of Australia.
In March 2012, at 33 years of age, young Gold Coast mum Elisha Neave was told that she had an aggressive form of ovarian cancer.
Garden centres rue fall in homeowners
The drop, coupled with a particular decline in the number of homeowners aged under 35, could result in garden centres losing out on tens of millions of pounds a year when today's young consumers reach the "core gardening age group," according to the HTA's study, which was reported by the Financial Times.
According to the report, people renting properties spend an average of 55 per cent of the amount that those with their own homes spend on their gardens.
It cited the rise in people living in highly urbanised areas with no gardens, the popularity of paving over front gardens for parking and shrinking garden size as other factors threatening the industry, which is worth an estimated £5 billion in sales each year.
Greater London, where home ownership has fallen from 61 per cent to 43 per cent in six years, has Britain's lowest spend per household on gardening products.
The HTA and Royal Horticultural Society said that renting property or a lack of garden space did not mean people could not grow plants.
Guy Barter, chief horticultural adviser to the RHS, said: "Container gardening, for example, is especially popular with renters who can move their plants when they relocate."
The HTA report identified the period between 1997 and 2005 as the garden retail sector's 'golden age" as a result of increased home ownership and economic prosperity from the late 1980s to mid-1990s.
It also predicted an improved market this year due to better weather following unfavourable conditions in March and April last year.
Turkey Summons US Diplomat Over Spying Report
The Turkish foreign ministry has summoned the most senior U.S. diplomat in the country for clarification of a report about American and British spying in Turkey.
Deputy Prime Minister Bulent said the U.S. charge d'affaires and Turkish officials had discussed the report Monday.
German magazine Der Spiegel and the online magazine The Intercept said that documents provided by former U.S. National Security Agency analyst Edward Snowden show that Turkey was a high priority intelligence target for U.S. and British intelligence services.
According to Turkish news wires, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan downplayed the importance of the report, saying that all major countries spied on each other.
An earlier report that Germany's main intelligence agency had also targeted Ankara drew a more angry response from the Turkish government.
Magaluf police chief charged over corruption
The claimants presented proof of extortion by policemen and Calvià Town Hall civil servants at Mallorca's public prosecutor's office on Friday.
The head of Calvià police on the holiday island of Majorca has been arrested following corruption claims filed by businessmen and bar owners in the notorious binge drinking hotspot of Magaluf.
Chief Inspector José Antonio Navarro has been remanded in custody following corruption claims made against him by several businessmen from Punta Ballena, the street where most of Magaluf's bars and nightclubs are located.
According to online daily Mallorca Diario, the claimants presented proof of extortion by policemen and Calvià Town Hall civil servants at the office of Majorca's anti-corruption prosecutor on Friday.
Two other local police officers were arrested by Spanish Civil Guards in connection to the corruption claims and will have to be questioned by a judge alongside Navarro.
Spanish national daily ABC reported the disgruntled nightclub owners as saying favouritism by authorities was having a serious effect on their businesses.
"It's not about making money anymore, it's about surviving," one of the businessmen told the court.
You don't mess with our livelihoods.
We have nothing to lose.
Magaluf made international headlines this summer as a result of a viral YouTube video which showed an 18-year-old British holidaymaker performing fellatio on 24 men during a pub crawl.
Island authorities have since attempted to clamp down on the drunk and disorderly behaviour of Magaluf holiday revellers by minimizing numbers on the notorious alcohol-fuelled bar crawls.
In addition, the Playhouse club where the fellatio incident took place was forced to shut down for a year, while Playhouse and the bar crawl organizers Carnage were jointly fined €55,000 ($73,000).
The tourist resort of Magaluf, mainly popular with young British holidaymakers, has also seen numerous alcohol-fuelled accidents involving the craze known as "balconing," where people jump from one balcony to another or from a balcony into the hotel pool.
First day of spring marked with wet and blustery conditions impacting Adelaide Airport flights
SPRING has sprung a wintry surprise on southern South Australia, bringing heavy showers and strong winds that have affected flights at Adelaide Airport.
A further 5mm of rain fell on the city in the evening up to 9pm, following the 6.6mm that fell overnight on Sunday.
The latest rain came courtesy of a couple of short, blustery showers, including a burst that started just before 8pm that dumped almost 4mm in about 10 minutes.
After winter delivered an early dose of spring last week, temperatures dropped again on Monday to a high of just 15.8C in the city.
The squally conditions are believed to have contributed to the delayed landing of a Virgin Airlines flight from Melbourne to Adelaide.
The plane was scheduled to land just after 7.30pm but was hit by windshear - a sudden change in wind speed or direction over a short distance - and was forced to pull out.
Wind gusts were reaching about 50km/h on the ground at Adelaide Airport at the time.
Flight data showed the plane had to pull out of second landing and the plane eventually touched down about 8.40pm.
That flight's delay caused the subsequent delay of a few other flights, including an Emirates flight from Dubai and a Qantas flight from Sydney.
A top of 16C is forecast for Adelaide on Tuesday, with the chance of a shower or two.
Israeli Children Return to School After Gaza War
Thousands of Israeli children in areas near the Gaza Strip went back to school Monday after spending the summer in bomb shelters as rockets and mortars rained on their communities during the 50-day Israel-Hamas war, while schools in Gaza remained shuttered as the territory recovered from the fighting.
The start of school brought a sense of joy and excitement to rocket-scarred communities in southern Israel, but the signs of the fighting remained fresh.
In the southern city of Ashdod, employees at the "Pashosh" kindergarten, which was struck by a rocket, removed shrapnel marks off the walls and slides ahead of the students' arrival.
"We are a little scared but we are excited," said Ronit Bart, a resident of Kibbutz Saad and an English teacher in its school.
A lot of children in our area really need to go back to a routine.
Her 11-year-old daughter, Shani Bart, said it felt a "little bit weird" to suddenly be going back to school.
"There were some difficult times and we didn't leave our houses at all," she said.
President Reuven Rivlin visited the kibbutz, which is located close to the Gaza border, to offer his support.
Until a cease-fire halted the war last week, thousands of residents of border communities like Saad remained indoors or left their homes for safer areas further away from Gaza to escape rocket and mortar fire.
Many residents of Nahal Oz, a community close to the Gaza frontier where a 4-year-old boy was killed by a Palestinian mortar shell, are hesitant about coming back.
The Education Ministry said about a dozen families still had not returned.
Their children have been placed in alternate schools for the time being.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visited a school in Sderot, a Gaza border town that has been hard hit by Palestinian fire.
He urged the children to study hard and said "we will make sure to provide you with knowledge and provide you with security."
Israel and Hamas agreed to an open-ended truce last Tuesday.
The cease-fire brought an immediate end to the fighting but left key issues unresolved, such as Hamas' demand for the lifting of an Israel-Egyptian blockade of Gaza and the reopening of Gaza's air and seaports.
Israel wants Hamas to disarm and the return of bodies of two Israeli soldiers killed in the war.
A new round of indirect talks is expected to begin later this month in Egypt.
The war killed more than 2,100 Palestinians, three-quarters of whom were civilians and at least 494 children, according to Palestinian and U.N. estimates.
Israel disputes the figures and estimates that at least half of those killed were militants, though it has not provided firm evidence to back its claims.
On the Israeli side, 66 soldiers and six civilians, including a Thai worker, were killed.
Hamas and other Gaza militants fired 4,591 rockets and mortars at Israeli cities during the fighting, mostly in the south.
The Israeli military, meanwhile, carried out more than 5,000 airstrikes and other attacks.
The Israeli attacks damaged or destroyed thousands of homes in Gaza, and an estimated 250,000 people took refuge in more than 100 U.N. schools turned into makeshift shelters.
With tens of thousands of people still in the shelters and fighting still raging, education officials delayed the start of the school year last week.
"I hope the school will open soon to complete our education, just like the world's children and Jewish children," said Mohammad Amara, a 13-year-old boy staying in a Gaza City school.
Housing prices have posted their strongest winter gain in seven years, according to a widely-watched gauge.
The RP Data CoreLogic Hedonic home value index of Australian capital city dwelling prices rose by 1.1 per cent in August, RP data said on Monday.
The rise brought the total gain over the June, July and August to 4.2 per cent, the biggest rise over the winter months since 2007.
Annual growth in prices came in at 10.9 per cent, more than double the gain of the 12 months to August 2013, but the gains were not evenly spread across the country.
RP Data research director Tim Lawless said Sydney and Melbourne are driving a two tier market.
The RP Data figures show Sydney home prices rose by 16.1 per cent in the past year, while Melbourne's were up by 11.7 per cent.
The next strongest markets were Adelaide, Brisbane and Darwin, with price rises averaging between five and six per cent.
At the other end of the scale was Canberra, hit by government spending cutbacks, where prices rose by only 1.4 per cent through the year.
Mr Lawless said that now spring has begun there would be a rise in listings of properties for sale over the coming few months, which would be a "real test" for the market.
"Considering the ongoing high rate of auction clearance rates, a generally rapid rate of sale and the ongoing low interest rate environment, it's likely that dwelling values will rise even further over the next three months," he said.
Lenny Henry: My father never hugged me.
Never said "I love you"
Henry was one of seven children born to Jamaican immigrants in Dudley in the Midlands in 1958.
His father, who died when Henry was 19, worked in a factory and their relationship was limited.
Henry is rehearsing a comedy, Rudy's Rare Records, which is based in part on an imaginary conversation with his father and has grown out of the Radio 4 series.
The soundtrack is a mix of reggae and rap and the tunes are upbeat.
But Henry has had to work through some difficult memories of childhood.
There was "a lot" of therapy after his mother died and Henry is reflective about his relationship with his father.
He was very unknowable.
You never saw his face, you just heard his voice: 'Stop the noise.
Leave your sister alone.
Move!
I want to watch the cricket.
My older brothers Seymour and Hilton - who were grown-up when I was a kid - went to the pub with him and talked about things like the shape of the beer glass, the beauty of the stroke in cricket.
I never had a conversation with him like that.
He was this unsmiling bloke in the corner, reading the paper for a lot of my life.
Recently Henry opened a foundry in Dudley and, although conditions were better than in his father's day, he got a snapshot of what life must have been like for him.
It's a bit brighter now but they're dark, smoky, Stygian labyrinthine depths with bursts of flame and smoke and lots of soot.
My dad used to get in the bath and just lie there and you'd hear him slowly start to sing to himself because he would wash the foundry off him.
When I walked round it, I realised that he had done that for years and years to put food on the table, and my estimation of him went up.
None the less, Henry emerged from a childhood stripped of parental affection.
My dad never did hugging, never said, 'I love you'.
It wasn't until my mum was poorly near the end of her life that we started saying 'I love you, I love you, I love you.
Having a daughter of his own, Billie, with Dawn French, enabled him to share the love he missed as a child.
Could you stop with the "I love you"?
Just stop hugging me!
Dad, I'm 22!
With Dawn French.
Why wouldn't I be friends with her?
She's a great mum
He's still very good friends with French, to whom he was married for 25 years.
Dawn's a good person.
Why wouldn't I be friends with Dawn?
She's a great mum.
Henry's own mother was diabetic.
It was one of the things that killed her.
So when I became very, very overweight and started getting diabetic symptoms, my doctor said, 'You've got to be radical.
So I went on a big fitness thing, and I also had to go on a drastic diet to reverse the symptoms.
It's very hard.
And it's tedious.
Nobody likes eating carrots.
Henry's change in career trajectory is, perhaps, reflected in his distinguished, close-cropped beard.
Since he won critical acclaim for his Othello, he has become engrossed in the theatre.
Comedy of Errors followed, as did Fences by August Wilson.
It's a different experience from the sitcoms and comedies that have upholstered his busy working life.
He started out when he was just 16 and working at a factory.
A DJ spotted him on stage doing impressions and wrote to New Faces about him.
His TV career was launched in the mid-Seventies: "For quite a long time I was the only black impressionist/comedian on telly."
He learnt on the job.
Not only did I have to grow up in the public eye, I had to learn how to be an efficient joke-delivering mechanism between 1975 and 1985, whilst being a star, being on television and it was really difficult.
Lenny on New Faces in 1975
Because his manager owned the stage rights to The Black and White Minstrel Show, a light entertainment programme in which people "blacked up," Henry found himself performing his comedy in it for five years.
My family were very uncomfortable about it.
I sort of wish it had never happened, but I don't regret that I did it.
Although it was a weird, reprehensible position to be in, I was working in huge venues and learning how to work a crowd.
But what was an "award-winning light entertainment staple of British television for years and years" was also a "grotesque parody of black people."
Introducing characters who both lampooned and celebrated black British culture, Henry worked on the alternative comedy circuit in the Eighties.
The first series of The Lenny Henry Show aired in 1984, and in the Nineties he was known as, among other things, chef Gareth Blacklock in the comedy series Chef!.
Advertisements, documentaries, TV series and parts in films consumed his next decade but after his 2008 BBC series, LennyHenry.tv, he thought: "What are you going to do next, Len, because it all feels a bit like you're marking time or you're slightly going sideways."
What came next was a Radio 4 documentary series called What's So Great About...?
The first was on Shakespeare.
I had a real allergy to Shakespeare.
I wasn't really taught it at school properly and thought it was very much the reserve of middle-class white people with tights and a cabbage down the front.
So I was very frightened of it.
Everybody we interviewed on that show, Peter Hall, Trevor Nunn, Adrian Lester, Judi Dench, said, 'You should try it.
Don't slag it off if you don't know what you're talking about.
Get some of the words in your mouth and then you'll understand why we all love Shakespeare so much.
Henry delivered 20 lines of Othello's last speech for the documentary and he was hooked.
It gave me the feeling that I could do it.
It's almost like I had my head put on straight for me.
'This is what it's about, it's a serious thing, take it seriously, learn your lines, do some research.
So the rehearsal process was brutal and I was reading that play for months and months before we did it.
And it was a success.
They seemed to expect a car crash and it didn't quite happen.
Soon he was starring in Comedy of Errors.
Suddenly I'm at the National Theatre and I just couldn't quite believe it.
There was one moment where I thought, 'Oh, you've changed.""
There was a technical fault and Henry instinctively felt that it was his job to keep the audience entertained.
"A little voice inside me said, 'You're going to have to do 10 minutes while they fix the computer.""
Instead, the stage manager announced the performance would resume as soon as the problem was resolved.
I walked off the stage and something in me went, "Oh, thank God".
It's not my responsibility.
I can let somebody else sort it out.
'You're in a play, stay in character.""
Henry appearing in Fences at the Duchess Theatre
Learning his lines for Fences was challenging.
Panic's quite good, it stiffens the sinews.
That was well received too, so it's like a big sign from the gods, saying, 'This is what you should be doing.""
He says this, of course, in a BOOMING voice.
So I'm sticking with it.
I'm really loving it.
I love being in a rehearsal room.
Henry still has a comedian's brain, though - throughout, our conversation is broken with flashes of his humour as he slips in and out of impressions.
I'm just choosing not to do stand-up because that thing of getting instant gratification from a room full of strangers I guess is kind of dangerous.
If you're constantly seeking that it can lead to a brick wall.
I do Live at the Apollo sometimes when I want to, but generally it doesn't float my boat like it used to.
I ask whether he'll ever do another stand-up tour.
The joy of sitting in a room with a director who is helping to shape a beginning, middle and end of a journey - I don't think I'll ever want to give that up.
So this is his new incarnation?
I think so.
I like being an actor.
It's good fun.
You're always telling a story and that's a great place to be.
I love stories.
People love stories.
Kenya registers civil servants to target 'ghost workers'
Kenya has started biometrically registering all civil servants in an attempt to remove "ghost workers" from the government's payroll.
Employees who failed to register over the next two weeks would no longer be paid, a government statement said.
The government suspects that thousands of people continue to receive salaries after leaving the civil service.
President Uhuru Kenyatta pledged to curb corruption in the public service after taking office in 2013.
An audit earlier this year found that at least $1m (£700,000) a month was lost in payments to "ghost workers" and other financial malpractice.
The government suspects that salaries continue to be deposited into bank accounts, even after a person dies or leaves the public service, reports the BBC's Wanyama Chebusiri from the capital, Nairobi.
All public servants are required to present themselves over the next two weeks at identification centres to ensure their data is captured through the biometric registration exercise, a government statement said.
Anyone who failed to do so without a valid excuse would be eliminated from the payroll, it said.
"This exercise will contribute significantly to the rationalization of the public service by determining the actual numbers of public servants and will also be used to cleanse the payroll at both levels of government- hence bring a stop to the issue of 'ghost workers'," said Anne Waiguru, the cabinet secretary in the Ministry of Devolution and Planning.
Tens of Turkish Policemen Arrested over 'Plotting' against Gov't
A total of 33 police officers have been detained in Turkey on suspicions of 'plotting against the government', local media outlets say.
Police officials have not immediately commented.
Among the detainees were 14 high-ranking officers, according to Hurriyet Daily News.
Some of them were involved in last December's corruption probes targeting government officials, including four government ministers.
In July a number of Turkish policemen were arrested for allegedly having set up an organized criminal gang and having tapped phone number.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan (who was Prime Minister back then) described their actions as part of activity conducted by Islamist cleric Fethullah Gullen against him and others in power.
Not all children back to school in Ukraine
Schools across most of Ukraine reopened their doors on Monday (September 1), after the summer holidays.
The day is traditionally a big one for families, and like thousands of other Ukrainian parents, Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenyuk took his daughter to school.
While there, he told waiting journalists that not all schools had reopened, but that he was committed to defending the country for future generations:
The first of September ceremony was not held in every school.
There is not a peaceful sky over every part of Ukraine.
We must fight for a peaceful sky.
The whole of Ukraine, a huge joint Ukrainian's people's front, must fight for a peaceful sky.
Aleksan Pastukhov, the head teacher of Slaviansk School, attended by Yatsenyuk's daughter, spoke in Russian.
We hope that peace will finally be established here and that children will receive knowledge that will be useful in their future lives.
The first day back at school is traditionally celebrated by children wearing embroidered shirts, carrying balloons and giving flowers to their teachers.
In Rona Fairhead, the BBC may have found the formidable chief it needs
She comes trailing clouds of glory from the world of banking, media management and the inner conclaves of the Tory party.
Indeed, she has had frontline experience of her own.
Her career began at global management consultants Bain and Co, then progressed via Morgan Stanley, Bombadier, ICI and the media world of Pearsons.
She was chief executive of the Financial Times for seven years, resigning when the top job at its parent company Pearson's went to a junior male colleague.
Her pay-off is said to be close to £1 million.
Her political rating is sturdy, too.
She was recommended to David Cameron by Lord Browne, the former head of BP, when he was looking to bring private expertise into Whitehall: she became a cabinet office adviser.
Her husband is a former Tory councillor.
Back in May, I described the chairman's job as a poisoned chalice.
Not only is the BBC a vast and complex entity at the heart of public life, but there is an inner paradox to its structure.
The trust faces in two directions: inwards as the upper tier of the BBC's own management hierarchy, but also outwards as the voice of public concern and disquiet when things go awry.
This is an almost untenable duopoly calling for complete root-and-branch reform.
But what incoming chairman would risk coming in, crashing around and dismantling an institution as complex as a Chinese dynasty in case they put themselves out of a job in the process.
It's a difficult call.
If that weren't tough enough, plenty of people are keen to see the BBC cut down in size - its power, its finances and its status overhauled.
As competitors circle ever closer and new technology challenges cosy old certainties, the imminent negotiation of the licence fee is fraught with especial danger for the BBC.
For the modest sum of £145.50 a year, the British public buys into what is surely the greatest media enterprise in the world.
The BBC tells a good story: it claims that its output reaches 96 per cent of households, and costs each one of them just 40p a day.
What's more, apparently the Beeb's popularity is rising: 53 per cent support today as against 31 per cent 10 years ago.
Patterns of watching and using the BBC have changed: I receive news headlines on my mobile phone these days, and catch up on missed programmes with iPlayer.
But it remains a much-loved and formidable institution.
It needs a formidable chairman - I hope it has found one.
Texas' Perry Says Disparaging Tweet Unauthorized
A tweet from Republican Texas Gov. Rick Perry's verified account on Sunday night included a disparaging image of the Democratic district attorney who is at the center of his criminal indictment on charges of abuse of power.
The tweet was later deleted, followed by another from Perry's account that disavowed the post.
A tweet just went out from my account that was unauthorized.
"I do not condone the tweet and I have taken it down," the later post said.
Perry aides did not immediately return messages seeking comment.
Although the tweets were sent from Perry's verified account, it was unclear who does the actual posting for the feed.
The earlier tweet posted an unflattering mock image of Travis County District Attorney Rosemary Lehmberg, who was convicted of drunken driving in April 2013.
Perry vetoed funds to her office when she refused to resign, which led to a grand jury in Austin this month indicting Perry - who is a potential 2016 presidential candidate.
The caption on the tweet reads: "I don't always drive drunk at 3x the legal blood alcohol limit ... but when I do, I indict Gov. Perry for calling me out about it."
I am the most drunk Democrat in Texas.
Lehmberg's office did not lead the grand jury investigation against Perry.
It was handled by Michael McCrum, a San Antonio-based special prosecutor who was assigned by a Republican judge.
Perry has pleaded not guilty and called the charges a political ploy.
His high-powered legal team has asked the judge overseeing the case to dismiss the indictment, claiming that the law being used to prosecute the longest-serving governor in Texas history is unconstitutionally vague.
Perry cut off $7.5 million in state funds to the state's Public Integrity Unit - which is based in Travis County and prosecutes public corruption in Texas - when Lehmberg refused to resign.
That veto drew a formal complaint from a left-leaning watchdog group.
Perry's verified account is updated frequently - and sometimes famously.
After finishing in fifth place in the Iowa caucuses during his 2012 presidential campaign, Perry addressed speculation that he might call it quits with a tweet of a photo of himself jogging near a lake, and the words, "Here we come South Carolina!"
Berkeley says housing market back to "normal"
One of London's most prominent property developers has warned that the housing market in southeast England has "reverted" to normal levels of activity.
Homes in the capital have been the subject of red-hot demand and surging prices, with widespread fears of a credit bubble prompting the Bank of England to impose limits on mortgage borrowing in June.
Tony Pidgley, founder and chairman of upmarket housebuilder Berkeley, on Monday said: "Since the start of the current financial year, the market has reverted to normal transaction levels from the high point in 2013," adding that this offered a "stable operating environment."
London's property market fared well during the downturn as foreign buyers piled into the capital.
Prices in the city have leapt 18.5 per cent in the past year alone, according to Land Registry data, far outstripping the 6.7 per cent average for England and Wales as a whole.
Average selling prices on Berkeley's private, affordable and student schemes have risen by about a fifth in the past year, reaching £423,000 at the end of April.
However, a strengthening pound has in recent months made London property less attractive to foreign buyers - some of whom have also been deterred by the introduction of new property taxes and political rhetoric around a potential "mansion tax" ahead of the general election next May.
London estate agent Foxtons last week warned that April's Mortgage Market Review, which introduced tougher lending rules, would also spark lower rates of market growth in both property sales transactions and prices during the second half of the year.
Fresh data from the Bank of England on Monday showed a drop in the number of mortgage approvals in July, further suggesting the housing market is cooling.
Hamptons International, another estate agent, has cut its 2015 forecast for London property price growth to 3 per cent on the basis that house price sentiment is already starting to weaken.
Transaction volumes have meanwhile dropped by a quarter year on year in London's most expensive postcodes, such as Chelsea, Mayfair and Kensington, according to agent WA Ellis.
Still, appetite for homes in the capital has been a boon to Berkeley, pushing up cash due on forward sales to more than £2.2bn.
Mr Pidgley added: "Demand for the right product with good design in the best locations has remained resilient and, reflecting this, forward sales have been maintained."
In June the company reported it had sold 3,742 new homes in the year to the end of April - almost a third more than the pre-crisis peak in 2007.
Annual pre-tax profits rose 40 per cent year on year to £380m, on revenues up 18 per cent to £1.6bn.
Speaking on Monday ahead of the company's annual meeting, Mr Pidgley said Berkeley's earnings for the year were anticipated to be in line with current market expectations.
Analyst consensus is for full-year pre-tax profit of £450m.
Berkeley shares were flat at £23.96 in afternoon London trading.
Nude photos of Jennifer Lawrence leaked online by hacker
Jennifer Lawrence arrives at the 85th annual Academy Awards.
Nude photos of Oscar-winning actress Jennifer Lawrence have been leaked online by a hacker who claimed to have a "master list" of images of 100 other starlets.
A representative for the star of "The Hunger Games" confirmed the photos of Lawrence were real and blasted the hacker for "a flagrant violation of privacy."
The authorities have been contacted and will prosecute anyone who posts the stolen photos of Jennifer Lawrence.
The photos, which originally were posted on the image-sharing site 4chan, were purportedly obtained through a weakness in Apple's iCloud online storage system, and a purported "master list" of the hacking victims includes the names of dozens of female stars, including Rihanna, Kim Kardashian, Mary Elizabeth Winstead and Mary-Kate Olsen, according to BuzzFeed.
It is not clear how many of the images are authentic, though "Scott Pilgrim vs. the World" star Winstead took to Twitter to denounce the hack as well.
"To those of you looking at photos I took with my husband years ago in the privacy of our home, hope you feel great about yourselves," Winstead tweeted.
However, Victoria Justice, of the Nickolodeon series "iCarly" and "Victorious," denied that the photos were of her, tweeting, "These so called nudes of me are FAKE people.
Let me nip this in the bud right now. *pun intended*.
Buzzfeed reported late Sunday that a spokesman for pop star Ariana Grande denied that purported photos of her were authentic.
Exclusive extract from Howard Jacobson's acclaimed new novel about love and the letter 'J'
They dissolved, that was the best way of putting it, they gradually came apart like a cardboard box that had been left out in the rain.
Just occasionally a woman told him he was too serious, hard-going, intense, detached, and maybe a bit prickly.
And then shook his hand.
He recognised prickly.
He was spiny, like a hedgehog, yes.
The latest casualty of this spininess was an embryo-affair that had given greater promise than usual of relieving the lonely tedium of his life, and perhaps even bringing him some content.
Ailinn Solomons was a wild-haired, quiveringly delicate beauty with a fluttering heart from a northern island village more remote and rugged even than Port Reuben.
She had come south with an older companion whom Kevern took to be her aunt, the latter having been left a property in a wet but paradisal valley called, felicitously, Paradise Valley.
No one had lived in the house for several years.
The pipes leaked, there were spiders still in the baths, slugs had signed their signatures on all the windows, believing the place belonged to them, the garden was overgrown with weeds that resembled giant cabbages.
It was like a children's story cottage, threatening and enchanting at the same time, the garden full of secrets.
Author's view: Howard Jacobson, whose novel "J" is longlisted for the Man Booker Prize 2014.
The shortlist is announced next week
Kevern had been sitting holding hands with Ailinn on broken deckchairs in the long grass, enjoying an unexpectedly warm spring afternoon, the pair of them absent-mindedly plugged into the utility console that supplied the country with soothing music and calming news, when the sight of her crossed brown legs reminded him of an old song by a long-forgotten black entertainer his father had liked listening to with the cottage blinds down.
Your feet's too big.
On account of their innate aggressiveness, songs of that sort were no longer played on the console.
Not banned - nothing was banned exactly - simply not played.
Encouraged to fall into desuetude, like the word desuetude.
Popular taste did what edict and proscription could never have done, and just as, when it came to books, the people chose rags-to-riches memoirs, cookbooks and romances, so, when it came to music, they chose ballads.
Carried away by the day, Kevern began to play at an imaginary piano and in a rudely comic voice serenade Ailinn's big feet.
Ailinn didn't understand.
"It was a popular song by a jazz pianist called Fats Waller," he told her, automatically putting two fingers to his lips.
This his father had always done to stifle the letter j before it left his lips.
It had begun as a game between them when he was small.
His father had played it with his own father, he'd told him.
Begin a word with a j without remembering to put two fingers across your mouth and it cost you a penny.
It had not been much fun then and it was not much fun now.
He knew it was expected of him, that was all.
He had to explain what jazz was.
Ailinn had never heard any.
Jazz, too, without exactly being proscribed, wasn't played.
Improvisation had fallen out of fashion.
There was room for only one "if" in life.
People wanted to be sure, when a tune began, exactly where it was going to end.
Wit, the same.
Its unpredictability unsettled people's nerves.
And jazz was wit expressed musically.
Though he reached the age of 10 without having heard of Sammy Davis Junior, Kevern knew of jazz from his father's semi-secret collection of old CDs.
But at least he didn't have to tell Ailinn that Fats Waller was black.
Given her age, she was unlikely to have remembered a time when popular singers weren't black.
Again, no laws or duress.
A compliant society meant that every section of it consented with gratitude - the gratitude of the providentially spared - to the principle of group aptitude.
People of Afro-Caribbean origin were suited by temperament and physique to entertainment and athletics, and so they sang and sprinted.
People originally from the Indian subcontinent, electronically gifted as though by nature, undertook to ensure no family was without a functioning utility phone.
What was left of the Polish community plumbed; what was left of the Greek smashed plates.
Those from the Gulf States and the Levant whose grandparents hadn't quickly left the country while WHAT HAPPENED, IF IT HAPPENED was happening - fearing they'd be accused of having stoked the flames, fearing, indeed, that the flames would consume them next - opened labneh and shisha-pipe restaurants, kept their heads down, and grew depressed with idleness.
To each according to his gifts.
Having heard only ballads, Ailinn was hard pressed to understand how the insulting words Kevern had just sung to her could ever have been set to music.
Music was the expression of love.
"They're not really insulting," Kevern said.
Except maybe to people whose feet are too big.
My father never insulted anybody, but he delighted in this song.
He was saying too much, but the garden's neglect gave the illusion of safety.
No word could get beyond the soundproofing of the giant cabbage-like leaves.
Ailinn still didn't comprehend.
Why would your father have loved something like that?
He wanted to say it was a joke, but was reluctant, in her company, to put two fingers to his lips again.
She already thought he was strange.
"It struck him as funny," he said instead.
She shook her head in disbelief, blotting out Kevern's vision.
Nothing to see in the whole wide world but her haystack of crow-black hair.
Nothing else he wanted to see.
"If you say so," she said, unconvinced.
But that still doesn't explain why you're singing it to me.
She seemed in genuine distress.
Are my feet too big?
He looked again.
Your feet specifically, no.
Your ankles, maybe, a bit...
And you say you hate me because my ankles are too thick?
Hate you?
Of course I don't hate you.
That's just the silly song.
He could have said, "I love you," but it was too soon for that.
"Your thick ankles are the very reason I'm attracted to you," he tried instead.
I'm perverse that way.
It came out wrong.
He had meant it to be funny.
Meaning to be funny often landed him in a mess because, like his father, he lacked the reassuring charm necessary to temper the cruelty that lurked in jokes.
Maybe his father intended to be cruel.
Maybe he, Kevern, did.
Despite his kind eyes.
Ailinn Solomons flushed and rose from her deckchair, knocking over the console and spilling the wine they'd been drinking.
Elderflower wine, so drink wasn't his excuse.
In her agitation she seemed to tremble, like the fronds of a palm tree in a storm.
"And your thick head's the very reason I'm perversely attracted to you," she said...
Except that I'm not.
He felt sorry for her, both on account of the unnecessary unkindness of his words and the fear that showed in her eyes in the moment of her standing up to him.
Did she think he'd strike her?
She hadn't spoken to him about life on the chill northern archipelago where she had grown up, but he didn't doubt it was in all essentials similar to here.
The same vast and icy ocean crashed in on them both.
The same befuddled men, even more thin-skinned and peevish in the aftermath of WHAT HAPPENED than their smuggler and wrecker ancestors had been, roamed angrily from pub to pub, ready to raise a hand to any woman who dared to refuse or twit them.
Thick head?
They'd show her a thick fist, if she wasn't careful!
Snog her first - the snog having become the most common expression of erotic irritation between men and women; an antidote to the bland ballads of love the console pumped out - snog her first and cuff her later.
An unnecessary refinement in Kevern's view, since a snog was itself an act of thuggery.
Ailinn Solomons made a sign with her body for him to leave.
He heaved himself out of the deckchair like an old man.
She felt leaden herself, but the weight of his grief surprised her.
This wasn't the end of the world.
They barely knew each other.
She watched him go - as at an upstairs window her companion watched him go - a man made heavy by what he'd brought on himself.
Adam leaving the garden, she thought.
She felt a pang for him and for men in general, no matter that some had raised their hands to her.
A man turned from her, his back bent, ashamed, defeated, all the fight in him leaked away - why was that a sight she felt she knew so well, when she couldn't recall a single instance, before today, of having seen it?
Alone again, Ailinn Solomons looked at her feet.
A score or so years before the events related above, Esme Nussbaum, an intelligent and enthusiastic 32-year-old researcher employed by Ofnow, the non-statutory monitor of the Public Mood, prepared a short paper on the continuance of low- and medium-level violence in those very areas of the country where its reduction, if not its cessation, was most to have been expected, given the money and energy expended on uprooting it.
"Much has been done, and much continues to be done," she wrote, "to soothe the native aggressiveness of a people who have fought a thousand wars and won most of them, especially in those twisted knarls and narrow crevices of the country where, though the spires of churches soar above the hedgerows, the sweeter breath of human kindness has, historically, been rarely felt.
But some qualities are proving to be ineradicable.
The higher the spire, it would seem, the lower the passions it goes on engendering.
The populace weeps to sentimental ballads, gorges on stories of adversity overcome, and professes to believe ardently in the virtues of marriage and family life, but not only does the old brutishness retain a pertinacious hold equally on rural communities as on our urban conurbations, evidence suggests the emergence of a new and vicious quarrelsomeness in the home, in the workplace, on our roads and even on our playing fields.
"You have an unfortunate tendency to overwrite," her supervisor said when he had read the whole report.
May I suggest you read fewer novels.
Esme Nussbaum lowered her head.
I must also enquire: are you an atheist?
"I believe I am not obliged to say," Esme Nussbaum replied.
Are you a lesbian?
Again Esme protested her right to privacy and silence.
A feminist?
Silence once more.
"I don't ask," Luther Rabinowitz said at last, "because I have an objection to atheism, lesbianism or feminism.
This is a prejudice-free workplace.
We are the servants of a prejudice-free society.
But certain kinds of hypersensitivity, while entirely acceptable and laudable in themselves, may sometimes distort findings such as you have presented to me.
You are obviously yourself prejudiced against the church; and those things you call "vicious" and "brutish," others could as soon interpret as expressions of natural vigour and vitality.
To still be harping on about WHAT HAPPENED, IF IT HAPPENED, as though it happened, if it happened, yesterday, is to sap the country of its essential life force.
Esme Nussbaum looked around her while Rabinowitz spoke.
Behind his head a flamingo pink LED scroll repeated the advice Ofnow had been dispensing to the country for the last quarter of a century or more.
Smile at your neighbour, cherish your spouse, listen to ballads, go to musicals, use your telephone, converse, explain, listen, agree, apologise.
Talk is better than silence, the sung word is better than the written, but nothing is better than love.
"I fully understand the points you are making," Esme Nussbaum replied in a quiet voice, once she was certain her supervisor had finished speaking, "and I am saying no more than that we are not healed as effectively as we delude ourselves we are.
My concern is that, if we are not forewarned, we will find ourselves repeating the mistakes that led to WHAT HAPPENED, IF IT HAPPENED, in the first place.
Only this time it will not be on others that we vent our anger and mistrust.
Luther Rabinowitz made a pyramid of his fingers.
This was to suggest infinite patience.
"You go too far," he said, "in describing as "mistakes" actions which our grandparents might or might not have taken.
You go too far, as well, in speaking of them venting their "anger" and "mistrust" on "others."
It should not be necessary to remind someone in your position that in understanding the past, as in protecting the present, we do not speak of "us" and "them."
There was no "we" and there were no "others."
It was a time of disorder, that is all we know of it.
"In which, if we are honest with ourselves," Esme dared to interject, "no section of society can claim to have acquitted itself well.
I make no accusations.
Whether it was done ill, or done well, what was done was done.
Then was then.
No more needs to be said - on this we agree.
And just as there is no blame to be apportioned, so there are no amends to be made, were amends appropriate and were there any way of making them.
But what is the past for if not to learn from it -
The past exists in order that we forget it.
If I may add one word to that -
Luther Rabinowitz collapsed his pyramid.
"I will consider your report," he said, dismissing her.
The next day, turning up for work as usual, she was knocked down by a motorcyclist who had mounted the pavement in what passers-by described as a "vicious rage."
Coincidences happen.
Lesotho military says no coup planned; PM stays in South Africa
Lesotho military officials denied staging a coup to overthrow the government, saying they were acting against police suspected of trying to arm political fanatics.
Prime Minister Thomas Thabane fled the country, saying the country's military had surrounded his official home and seized government buildings in the capital of Maseru.
The premier took his family to neighboring South Africa after saying he received an assassination threat.
Military spokesman Major Ntlele Ntoi said there was not, in fact, a coup, but that the military was responding to a threat from "political fanatics" whom police were attempting to arm.
"What happened this morning was that the command of the Lesotho Defense Force was acting after receiving several intelligence reports that amongst the police service, there are some elements who are actually planning to arm some of the political, party political youth fanatics who were on the verge of wreaking havoc," he told Voice of America.
South African government spokesman Clayson Monyela said the military's actions had the appearance at an overthrow.
"Although no one has claimed to have taken over government through the use of force, by all accounts the activities of the Lesotho defense force thus far bear the hallmarks of a coup d'etat," he said.
Lesotho military officials said soldiers returned to their barracks Sunday and there was calm in the capital.
Meanwhile, Deputy Prime Minister Mothetjoa Metsing in control of the government in Thabane's absence.
Thabane said he believes he is being targeted due to his attempt to fight corruption in the country.
Tensions have been high in Lesotho since June when Thabane suspended parliament sessions due to feuding in his unity government.
He said his actions have not undermined the government, despite allegations otherwise.
Eurozone manufacturing at 13-month low
Manufacturing growth in the eurozone slowed to a 13-month low in August, according to a closely-watched survey.
The final Markit's Eurozone Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) dipped to 50.7 in August, down from 51.8 in July.
A figure above 50 indicates expansion.
New orders dwindled and factories suffered amid rising tensions between the EU and Russia over Ukraine.
The figures come ahead of the European Central Bank (ECB) meeting on Thursday.
Markets will be looking for a clear plan from the bank to deal with a stalled eurozone recovery, as well as the threat of deflation with inflation standing at just 0.3%.
There is speculation that ECB boss Mario Draghi could offer further indications later this week that he is considering a quantitative easing scheme for the eurozone, similar to those taken by the UK and US during the financial crisis.
"Although some growth is better than no growth at all, the braking effect of rising economic and geopolitical uncertainties on manufacturers is becoming more visible," said Rob Dobson, senior economist at Markit.
The factory PMI for Germany, Russia's biggest trade partner in the EU, fell to an 11-month low of 51.4.
Meanwhile, in the bloc's second-largest economy, France, the PMI fell to 46.9.
France remains a real concern, as does Italy's descent from solid expansion to stagnation.
Signs that growth impetus waned in the key industrial engine of Germany, and in Spain and the Netherlands too, is also less than reassuring," Mr Dobson said.
The slowdown in industry is likely to add further fuel to the fire for analysts expecting additional monetary or fiscal stimulus to be implemented.
One positive note was from the Republic of Ireland, which saw its PMI grow to 57.3, its highest level since the end of 1999.
Howard Archer, chief economist at IHS Global Insight, said: "The best that can be said for the August eurozone manufacturing purchasing managers' survey is that it indicates that the sector is still growing."
He added: "Eurozone manufacturers are clearly finding life very difficult at the moment as current heightened geopolitical tensions - particularly related to Russia/Ukraine - add uncertainty to still challenging conditions in many countries.
This heightened uncertainty has clearly hit business - especially, and consumer confidence, and it is likely causing some orders to be delayed or even cancelled, particularly big-ticket orders.
He said it was looking "ever more likely" that the ECB would ultimately have to undertake some form of QE, "although we suspect that it will be limited."
The Beslan survivors' decade of hell: Ten years since the horrific school siege, how the children caught up in it are still suffering
Ten years ago over 1,000 people were taken hostage by Chechen militants at a school in Beslan, southern Russia
More than 330 people, more than half of them children, were killed in the three-day ordeal that shocked the world
We went back to Beslan to find some of the victims who cheated death in the classroom atrocity
Exactly a decade after the appalling Beslan school siege in which 334 perished, including 186 children, the heroic survivors warned last night of a new apocalypse in Ukraine.
When fanatic Islamic terrorists kidnapped and killed children and parents on 1 September 2004, at the start of a new term, it seemed like the nadir of all evil.
The tragedy united east and west in revulsion, which amazingly then turned to action and hope for the future in the direst misery.
Ten years on, we went back to Beslan in southern Russia to find some of the victims who cheated death in the classroom atrocity.
We discovered amazing young people, who have defied adversity, though the memory of this terrorist hell will live with them forever.
Their greatest hope?
That the war now scarring Ukraine - in which children like them are dying - will now stop.
The girl pictured trying to climb back inside the blitzed school gym
She was famously snapped by top Russian photographer Dmitry Beliakov wearing only her underwear as tried to climb back inside the blitzed school gym after a mine exploded.
Bewildered, Aida was desperately searching for her mother, Larissa, now 40.
Both were feared dead, but in fact they survived.
'A woman told me to run for my life but I couldn't,' said Aida at the time.
My legs were covered in blood.
I got up and climbed back in to look for my mum.
A soldier plucked her to safety.
After a series of surgeries, she thought she had totally recovered but said yesterday: 'Three months ago, the pain came back.
I fear I may need more surgery.
Some shrapnel pieces are still in my knee.
Her aim now is to become a dentist, to help people as she has been aided by medics.
'This tragedy changed my life but it surely did not break it,' she said defiantly.
'It happened to me and you can't change this fact.
Once a year I always go to the gym to recall those who remained there.
My friends and I try not to talk about it on other days.
The pain is too much.
My best friend and my classmate-to-be Dzera Gapoeva was killed there.
We played together when we were small and dreamed of going to school together.
'I don't want to marry until I finish my studies and start my career.
I will think about a family later.
She says the siege remains with her though memories fade a little each year.
I am pleased that many people in the world still remember our troubles and we are so grateful for the help we got from people in Britain and everywhere.
When I see online the photograph of me climbing into the school window, I think that many people will see it for the first time, understand about our disaster, and stop this from happening any more.
The boy who fled through a hail of bullets believing his mother to be dead
He was on his first day at school (Russians start school aged 7) and survived the three day siege hugging his mum Tamara.
Then seven he said: 'Mummy told me to lie down if there was an explosion and hold her hand.'
After one explosion he thought she was dying.
She told him: 'Run'.
Fearing she was dead, he fled and on his way he saw a crying toddler, grabbed the child by the hand, and fled through a hail of bullets.
His dad Vladimir, who scooped up his son outside, said: 'Damir told me his mother had died.
He said: 'I couldn't save her'.'
In fact, Tamara had stumbled free and was in hospital with leg wounds, in turn believing her son had perished.
After their reunion she said: 'I wept with joy.
I couldn't believe it.
He ran in and hugged me.
Damir was later flown to London (by the now defunct News of the World newspaper) to be crowned a Barnardo's Children's Champion by then premier Tony Blair and wife wife Cherie.
'This horror comes back to you every day, but I wish I could stop recalling it,' he said yesterday.
Still I can say that in my mind it is fading.
I remember right afterwards, I threw away all my toy guns.
But now I can play computer games with shooting and it is not a problem for me.
'I'm not scared to go back in the gym but I don't think about myself.
I remember those kids I used to play with in the yard who never got out.
We never say they were killed or dead.
We say they stayed in the gym.
I remember my trip to London so well, specially the toy shop where I was allowed to pick anything I wanted, and riding in an open top car.
But now he fears for places like Ukraine where wars cause the kind of misery he and his friends suffered.
This horror comes back to you every day, but I wish I could stop recalling it
'I feel so sorry for all those who suffer from these horrors,' said Damir, who was last week doing voluntary work at a nunnery.
I want to help so much.
I want to serve in the police one day and hope they enrol me to the training academy next year.
His mother Tamara, 48, said: '37 kids were killed in our neighbourhood, can you imagine?
I remember terrible silence right after the siege, there were just no children to shout and run around, and that silence lasted for many months.
She vividly recalls her trip with Damir to London.
People in London were crying when I told our story.
I realised then how folk on the other side of the world can understand our feelings, can show their support.
She was grateful to 'Cherie Blair and her foundation for that award and the opportunity to go to London in autumn 2004.
I wish I could call Cherie and just say it myself that 10 years have gone but I still remember meeting her and her husband in London, and how that helped Damir and me.
I remember when Damir wanted to eat borsch soup, they called all the local Russian restaurants.
I remember how he was playing with waiters in a restaurant, Damir was shooting at them from his water pistol and they ran away and played with him.
And we were just one month away from our horror then.
I was amazed that the British people were so ready to share our pain and to support us.
She said: 'I keep thinking this world did not get better within these 10 years.
Now in Ukraine the war goes on, people are dying every day, and I believe many children were killed and will be killed.
They are just the same children, like ours.
I think for many people the war is a news report they listen to when they are bored or busy with something else.
I just know what those people feel, the horror of it.
And I can't stop feeling it.
Nothing has changed, people still want to kill each other and it is so sad.
Damir grew up and became a very gentle and calm boy, he is not at all aggressive or angry.
He is not seeking revenge for example, he is not preoccupied with this past horror.
I know that he does not like to recall it but he is very close with six classmates and they go to the gym from time to time and light candles there.
When he was smaller he suffered from it - I remember he used to lie down on the sofa with his face turned away from us, for hours at a time.
Not sleeping, his eyes were open.
I also remember how he threw away all his guns and other army-type toys.Damir is 17 now, taller than me, nice looking, clever and healthy.
I can hardly believe that for some hours I was so sure he was dead and I'd never see him again.
When I managed to recover after the explosion and got on my feet I looked around, I saw the hell around me, when body parts were lying everywhere.
I was absolutely sure that there was no way my little boy could have survived in this hell.
'I remember I was shouting to him 'Damir, run, run away' but again I was so sure he had not heard me.
But he did hear, and he did run away.
So life goes on for us unlike for so many.
Georgy Ilyin, 17
The boy whose shocking image after the siege came to define the horror of Beslan
Comfort: Beslan survivor Georgy Ilyin with his mum Fatima after the siege in 2004, while on the right is Georgy today
His bloodstained face was etched with fear as he ran for his life as Chechen terrorists gunned down his classmates.
His picture was one of the most shocking symbols of the barbarity at Beslan.
His mother Fatima, 54, a senior GP, had dropped him for his first day at school before rushing to take her elder son Vladimir to university.
'I left two minutes before the terrorists rushed into the yard, so my little boy was left there alone for three days of horror,' she recalled.
Not completely alone, we had a family of relatives there but all of them were killed.
Only my Georgy managed to survive.
The closer this date is, the harder it is to think and talk about it.
There is no single day when we do not recall this tragedy.
We do not feel it was long ago, I think it happened yesterday, some scenes from those days come to my mind all the time.
Nobody will ever forget, I promise you.
Haunting: The image of Georgy (left) was one of the most shocking of the attack and has been immortalised in a statue (right)
I remember Georgy so much wanted to go to school on that day, he said he wanted to hug his teacher.
I only got to know he was alive when I saw him TV.
And now there is even a statue to crying Georgy in San Marino.
Georgy does not like to look at this picture and it is hidden it in the bookcase in our home.
I understand, but I also think that thanks to this picture people from all over the world feel our pain.
Georgy says now: 'It's important this can never happen again.
'I doubt we'll ever know the truth.
People keep investigating such tragedies and never know the truth.
Now they are investigating this Boeing crash in Ukraine.
Will we ever know what caused it?
This world is moving to something very bad.
'I can't understand how it happens, because if you ask people, no-one wants a war, so how does it happen?
Ten years is nothing for such pain.
We need dozens of years to pass in order to forget it a little.
It affected my health and I still feel it.
For about three or four years I had some nightmares because of the siege but then it got better.
I got back to school later in 2004, I was very scared every day.
I was thinking about my friends and classmates who were killed.
This is why I keep going to the gym as each 1 September approaches.
I want to pay tribute to my old childhood friends.
It is hard for me to go inside the gym but I must do it.
I do not feel myself a victim, this story is the part of my past now.
I will not forget it but I do not feel sorry for myself.
My life goes on.
I finished school this year entered a medical university in Vladikavkaz.
I will learn to be a heart surgeon.
My first choice was to go in the army.
I wanted to be a military man, but my health did not let me.
I wanted to fight for my country but it will not happen.
Georgy Farniyev, 20
The boy who survived despite having been trapped at the feet of a murderous terrorist
Miraculous: Georgy Farniyev was trapped at the foot of a murderous terrorist during the siege but still managed to survive
As the siege was underway, he was pictured trapped inside the gym, sitting next to a bomb at the foot of a murderous terrorist.
It is truly a miracle he was not killed.
'We feel as if it was just yesterday,' said Georgy, who wanted to train as an intelligence officer in the FSB, but was unable to because of damage to his health in the siege.
It is still with me, this is not something I left behind.
I am older now and people use to say children easily cope with bad experience - I must say this is not true.
'In 2006 I worked with psychologists and I did feel a bit better afterwards but I can't forget it.
And I would like to forget.
2005 - the year after - was the first and the last time when I went inside the gym again.
I lost consciousness.
I would never ever go there again and please don't ask me to show where I sat in that well-known picture.
Survivor: Georgy Farniev pictured today, with a photograph of him in hospital follwoing the siege on his laptop
My pain is enormous and I carry it with me every day.
My friends know that I do not like to think or discuss it and they never asked me about the school.
In terms of physical condition I am well.
I should be careful with my knee which was injured but I walk fine now.
Still my health did not let me go and study in FSB secret service academy in St Petersburg as I wanted.
I sent my documents, including medical papers, and they replied it was not possible.
My second passion was animals, so I went to the veterinary institute.
I have completed two years there.
He is learning to treat all animals 'from cats to cows'.
He said: 'I know I would never tell my children about my experience.
This is not something children should know about, and of course not something they should experience.
His mother Marina, 42, said: 'This pain never leaves me.
It is in my soul, worse when the anniversary gets close.
I will go and attend ceremonies being held to mark it.
I know Georgy won't go.
It must be even stronger for him because he was there and I was not.
I was waiting for him at home, not able to help.
I am so grateful to God that he was returned to me.Here in Beslan the imprint is on everyone.
It stays with us.
Georgy is an adult now but that horror is still with him.
It is hard to accept it when something so terribly unfair happens to you.
He is a boy, he likes sports but he can't take part because of his knee.
He had several surgeries, he walks but cannot exercise.
I would say he 50% overcame this horror, but one can never completely overcome and forget it.
This horrible experience will stay with us.
Many friends and neighbours were killed in the siege, and it only adds to my pain.
I lost many people I knew well and they were dear for me.
My son is with me and this is the greatest gift God could do for me but my heart aches about those killed.
I know families where new children were born, but also widows who never married again.
It is hard to accept that life goes on, even if you do not want it.
I will never forget my heart jumping out of my chest at the moment I saw him in hospital.
Now I look at what is going on in the world - wars in different regions.
What are those people fighting for?
Why are they killing each other?
The war is very close to our country now and I can hardly believe it.
We used to be one friendly country in the past, how did it happen that we are fighting now?
People and children are suffering, I am sure many children were already killed in Ukraine and many will be killed.
If we could only grab all the rebels and throw them away - as far away as possible.
Alyona Tskaeva, 10
The baby who was carried poignantly to safety by a special forces commando
Saved: Alyona Tskaeva is carried to safety by a Russian special forces commando (left).
She is now ten (right) and has no memory at all of the atrocity
The world gasped in 2004 when baby Alyona was carried out of the Beslan siege cradled in the arms of a Russian policeman.
Terrorists let her go but cruelly kept her 30 year old mother, ten year old older sister Kristina, and brother Makhar in the school gym.
Makhar, then three, escaped, but Alyona's mother and sister died in the murderous carnage.
Her father Ruslan has since remarried and with his new wife Svetlana he has a baby girl, who he named Kristina after the daughter he lost.
Alyona, now ten, has no memory of the siege and has blossomed into a bright and happy girl, say neighbours.
'They are a big happy family now and Alyona and Makhar are both great kids,' said a close friend.
Ruslan is a fantastic dad and wants to get them away from all the memories as the tenth anniversary is marked.
You can understand why.
Man accused of knocking down girl on Fife pelican crossing
A 78-year-old man is to stand trial accused of running over a three-year-old girl on a pelican crossing in Fife.
Gordon Stewart is alleged to have knocked down the girl on a crossing in Pittenween in East Neuk.
Prosecutors said Mr Stewart drove his Audi Q3 without due care and attention and knocked the girl down to her injury.
Stewart, 78, from Anstruther, denied the charge at Dundee Sheriff Court.
Sheriff Charles Macnair QC set a trial date in January.
4 tips for better underwater photos and video
If you're interested in shooting photos or video underwater, you have a variety of equipment choices.
The cheapest option is a waterproof point-and-shoot, such as the Nikon Coolpix AW120 or an action cam, such as the GoPro Hero3+ Silver Edition, which both go for around $300.
I shot these photos at a family party using several cameras, all priced under $350.
No matter what gear you use, a few rules apply for getting the best results.
Double-check your gear.
Even if you have a waterproof camera, make sure that the camera's battery and other compartments are tightly closed.
Also, set your camera to match the type of photos or video you'll be shooting.
Some cameras and camcorders have scene or shooting modes that will optimize the exposure for dim undersea settings.
And before you jump in, know how deep your equipment can go.
Some cameras are rated to only 5 feet, others to 50 or 60 feet.
Check out our buying guide and Ratings for digital cameras for both conventional and waterproof models.
Take multiple shots - because many of them won't work.
Point-and-shoot cameras have LCDs to help you compose photos, while action cams generally don't.
Even if you have an LCD, it's going to hard to see it underwater, and composing your shot will be a hit-or-miss process.
So shoot multiples.
Also, if your camera has a bracket mode, which shoots a burst of shots at slightly different exposure settings, take advantage of it.
Stay near the surface.
Light falls off dramatically the deeper you dive underwater.
If possible, stay close to the surface when you shoot in a pool, a lake or the ocean.
This will also allow you to capture more color in your photos; the deeper you go, the less color you'll see.
Get close to your subjects.
This is great advice for shooting on dry land, but it is even more important underwater because of the dim lighting conditions.
It's particularly important if you're shooting with an action cam: These devices often have a fixed, wide angle lens, which means you have to get closer to your subjects if you want them to fill the picture frame.
Andrew Lawson was the kind of man whose force of personality could shake things up, even in a gargantuan organisation like the NHS.
A consultant anaesthetist, he devoted his career to sparing the sick both the agonies of illness and the torments of treatment.
Among those who sought him out, his wife remembers, was an MI6 officer who had to live with the crippling after-effects of torture.
Lawson understood that while doctors are captivated by diagnoses and diseases, those being treated are overwhelmingly concerned with something else entirely: pain.
One day in 2007, however, he was the one who began to suffer.
"I have not felt myself," he wrote in May that year.
I've had difficulty in energising myself.
Struggling with flu-like symptoms, he found himself impatiently berating his wife, Juliet.
"I want everything to happen sooner rather than later," he noted.
When Juliet went away on business for a week, Lawson found himself unusually, and unaccountably, upset.
Something was up.
He got a colleague to perform a chest X-ray.
Just two weeks earlier he had been skiing in the French Alps.
The results of the X-ray came back.
He had mesothelioma, an incurable cancer that affects the pleura, or lining of the lung.
With most cancers, it is hard to know the exact cause.
Though some smokers get lung cancer, for example, not all lung cancer sufferers have smoked.
But mesothelioma is different.
In almost every case, the cause is exposure to asbestos - a fibrous building material once dubbed "miraculous," but now known to be mortally dangerous.
For most of us, mesothelioma has been an easy disease to ignore.
Asbestos, after all, is a product of the past.
The most dangerous type of asbestos has not been used in Britain since the 1960s, when a voluntary industry ban came into effect.
Even when it was used, only people in specific industries worked closely with it - pipe laggers, builders, carpenters and shipyard workers, for example.
An industrial toxin from another era, it hardly seems cause for concern today.
But such complacency is misplaced.
Britain, it turns out, is today at the peak of a mesothelioma epidemic.
There are more mesothelioma deaths here than in any other country on the planet.
With an annual toll of about 2,500, more than twice as many people die of the disease as die in accidents in motor vehicles.
Mesothelioma annual deaths since 1980 and projected future deaths in Great Britain
The reason that we are feeling its deadly effects now is that, though asbestos use has been illegal for years (all types of asbestos were eventually banned by law in 1999), it usually takes decades for mesothelioma to develop.
And the mesothelioma scourge is not confined to veterans of industrial building jobs.
Asbestos has been, and in many cases still is, embedded in the homes we live in, the offices we work in, the schools we are educated in, and the stores we shop in.
As a result, mesothelioma is no respecter of class, wealth, occupation, or age.
The bastions of privilege, from smart London department stores to public schools, have proved no refuge.
The Houses of Parliament are riddled with asbestos.
Even the hospitals that are meant to make us better have been reservoirs of this deadly carcinogen.
Andrew Lawson was not old.
Nor was he a pipe lagger.
In fact, he struggled to think where he might have come into contact with asbestos.
Then he put his finger on it.
"It seems that there may have been a lot of asbestos in the tunnels at Guy's Hospital where I spent six years training," he wrote.
Everybody - students, nurses, doctors and porters - used the tunnels.
One wonders how many of my contemporaries will get the same disease?
It was a question to which, sadly, he was able to provide a partial answer.
"Of four doctors who trained at Guy's Hospital and who subsequently developed mesothelioma in the past five years," he noted in a letter in 2010, "I am the only one left alive."
How many of us will get this disease?
Andrew Lawson was diagnosed with mesothelioma when he was 48.
When he died, on February 17 this year, he was 55.
To survive so long is unusual.
Fifty per cent of mesothelioma sufferers are dead 8 months after diagnosis.
It is always fatal.
So now we can only echo Lawson's question: "How many of us will get the same disease?"
According to Britain's leading expert on mesothelioma, Professor Julian Peto, our best guess is that between 1970 and 2050, when the asbestos epidemic in Britain should have played itself out, some 90,000 people will have died.
Most currently have no idea that they will die this way.
An asbestos mine in Quebec, Canada Alamy
A quick glance at the reports from the courts, where those affected often turn for compensation, shows how far the scourge of mesothelioma has spread.
This June, for example, Marks & Spencer admitted negligently exposing Janice Allen to asbestos.
She worked for the chain for nine years, from 1978 to 1987, supervising clothes sections at two sites - one of which was the flagship store on Oxford Street.
Mrs Allen was only 18 when she started working at M&S.
Now she has two children in their 20s.
"Before this happened," she says, "I had never heard of mesothelioma, I barely knew about asbestos.
I never would have dreamed that I would be affected by it.
Few people do know much about asbestos.
In fact, asbestos describes not one substance but a group of six minerals.
They get their name from the word "asbestiform" - which describes the fibrous structure which endows them with strength and flexibility.
Of the six, three have commonly been used in the building trade.
Chrysotile, commonly known as White Asbestos, is by far the most frequently found in buildings today.
It was used in roofing panels, floor tiles, pipe insulation, boiler seals, even brake linings in cars.
It is less lethal than other forms of asbestos, but it's still considered a "major health hazard" that can kill by the EU and WHO.
More dangerous, however, are Brown Asbestos (amosite) and Blue Asbestos (crocidolite).
Britain was once the world's largest importer of Brown Asbestos, and experts suggest that "there is strong but indirect evidence that this was a major cause of the uniquely high mesothelioma rate [in the UK]."
A Marks & Spencer employee was exposed to asbestos at its flagship store in Oxford Street, London Alamy
Janice Allen may not have thought of herself as a typical victim of mesothelioma, but Julian Peto's work suggests that her story is far from uncommon.
He has produced a study of sufferers which suggests that "a substantial proportion of mesotheliomas with no known occupational or domestic exposure were probably caused by environmental asbestos exposure."
Much of that exposure, he says, is due to "normal occupation and weathering" of our buildings.
No one, it seems, can be sure that they are safe.
A report from Goddard Consulting, which looked at the Palace of Westminster, shows how people, even in the heart of government, might have been exposed unawares.
In 2009 Goddard reported that service shafts and piping ducts behind Parliamentary committee rooms were contaminated with asbestos, whose lethal fibres could be disturbed by something as innocuous as "strong currents of air."
MPs are frequently accused of looking after their own interests, but in this case it seems the opposite may have been true.
While the Parliamentary Works Services Directorate insisted that the Palace of Westminster had been given "a clean bill of health," it is now accepted £1bn of work lasting several years is required to overhaul Parliament, upgrading electrics and removing asbestos, and that after the 2015 general election MPs may sit in the nearby QE2 Conference Centre rather than on the Green Benches at Westminster.
The Goddard report noted that "the presence of asbestos has not been managed in accordance with the various regulations."
It is impossible to know if this mismanagement will cost lives.
All anyone can do now is wait.
One person who has never been able to pinpoint his exposure to asbestos is Graham Abbott, a GP.
Like Andrew Lawson, Abbott, 50, suspects that he was exposed to asbestos while working in hospitals.
"I have worked at a hospital where positive asbestos claims have been made," he says, "But I can't prove it in my case.
It's so hard to remember all the places one has worked in, and the dates.
What he remembers clearly is the day early in December in 2009 when he was overcome with what felt like a fever.
He was 45, and in the middle of a late evening surgery.
Suddenly I started feeling shivery.
It came on very quickly.
I felt dreadful.
I didn't think I was going to be able to drive all the way home.
Being a doctor, Abbott knew that the pain was coming from the pleura, the lining around his lungs.
But like Janice Allen, he simply had no reason to suspect mesothelioma.
He ended up spending a month off work.
Puzzled doctors gave him chest X-rays, and administered pleural catheters to draw off fluid from the lungs and send it for assessment.
Yet the condition went undiagnosed.
Slowly his health improved and he went back to work.
But from time to time the same symptoms returned, often after he took exercise and was breathing hard.
In 2011, one of Abbott's patients arrived at his GP's surgery with similar symptoms to him, and was subsequently diagnosed with mesothelioma.
But even then Abbott didn't make the connection with his own case.
After all, his patient was decades older, and had worked directly asbestos.
The link in that case was clear.
In September 2011, Abbott's condition worsened again, and his consultant took his CT scans and X-rays to a panel of experts.
In December 2011, exactly two years after Abbott started feeling unwell, a probe, equipped with a camera, was fed into the cavity between the lining of his chest and the lining of his lung.
I'm an optimist.
I tend just to plod along," he says.
I hadn't worried about it too much to be honest.
But Rachel, my wife, was worrying.
The result of the biopsy came in the week between Christmas and New Year: "I was told it was mesothelioma."
Graham Abbott: diagnosed with mesothelioma
Suddenly Abbott was plunged into meetings with Macmillan nurses, one of whom suggested that he should get in touch with a lawyer.
That was when he realised the scale of the epidemic.
"It turns out that asbestos was widely used, particularly in big public buildings which quite often had asbestos lagging on the pipes," he says.
People who were exposed to asbestos in those buildings are now coming down with the disease.
So mesothelioma is now affecting younger people not in the typical professions.
The most dangerous asbestos-lagged pipes in hospitals were below ground level, so patients are unlikely to have been affected.
But many staff, walking in pedestrian tunnels to get from one building to another (like Andrew Lawson), or eating in basement canteens (as Graham Abbott frequently did) almost certainly did come into contact with the toxic substance.
For several decades after the war, it turns out, hospitals were potentially life-saving places for patients, but life-threatening places for the doctors who treated them.
It is still being removed today.
Pupils perched their Bunsen burners on asbestos mats
And it is not just hospitals.
Asbestos was frequently used in offices, shops, libraries and town halls for its marvellous insulating and flame-retarding properties.
Schools too.
In fact many people will have been first exposed to asbestos in the classroom.
Up and down the country, in myriad chemistry lessons, pupils have perched their Bunsen burners on asbestos mats.
Websites have sprung up to address the issue of asbestos in schools.
Meanwhile, in our homes, items as innocuous as floor tiles or shed roofs have routinely contained asbestos.
"It's an industrial poison built into large amounts of our housing stock," notes Andrew Morgan, the lawyer who represented Andrew Lawson in his case against Guy's Hospital.
In one case the only contact the woman sufferer could think of was pulling down a garden shed in the 1970s.
So be careful how you pull down the garden shed.
The impact of diagnosis, knowing that the disease is incurable, is huge.
"It takes a while to sink in," says Graham Abbott.
I went back to work and tried to carry on but realised that I couldn't concentrate on what I was doing.
I was at the surgery for two weeks.
Then I realised that I would have to leave and sort myself out.
Well, I won't see Christmas again
One of the hardest things was moving from the position of doctor to that of patient.
Like countless patients before him, he remembers feeling bewildered by the amount of information to get to grips with.
"It was hard to take everything in," he says.
"I asked my consultant "How long do I have?"
I was quoted about 12 months.
I remember thinking "Well, I won't see Christmas again.
That's it.""
Mesothelioma is particularly pernicious, because it is the mechanics of how we stay alive - the very act of breathing - that causes the cancer that kills.
Most Mesothelioma cases are caused by exposure to asbestos.
Asbestos is made up of tiny fibres.
When the asbestos is disturbed and the fibres are inhaled, they can become embedded in the pleura, the lining of the lungs.
Asbestos fibres irritate the pleura and can cause cell mutations.
"The problem comes from inhaled needle-shaped fibres of asbestos," Professor Tom Treasure, a cardio-thoracic surgeon who moved in 2001 to Guy's Hospital.
The very hospital where Andrew Lawson suspected he was exposed to asbestos is now, ironically, a leading centre in treating mesothelioma.
Treasure knew Lawson, and treated some others who are likely to have been exposed while training at the hospital.
Once the asbestos needles get into the lung tissue, says Treasure, "the act of breathing pushes them on the periphery, which is where the lining is.
It is by its nature invasive from the very beginning.
The normal options for treating other forms of cancer work less well with mesothelioma.
The effectiveness of surgery, for example, is hotly debated.
Some feel it is worth trying.
Treasure disagrees.
"You can't excise the pleura," he says.
You can't get your knife round it.
Meanwhile the cancer "is not very responsive to chemotherapy," which "has an effect" but does not cure.
"Every now and again you get long survivors," says Treasure.
But in the end they all die.
Happily, some patients do live far, far beyond expectations.
The author Stephen Jay Gould died 20 years after diagnosis.
Two-and-a-half years after his own diagnosis, Graham Abbott is still battling on.
After contacting mesothelioma Abbott was put in touch with Andrew Lawson, who, four years after his diagnosis, had become a one-man support and advice bureau for fellow sufferers.
"Hello, Cancer Central," he would announce cheerily when they called.
"He was very positive," says Abbott.
He had been diagnosed 4 years before and was still very active.
Initially, Abbott had been offered six cycles of chemotherapy that would take four months, and likely prolong his life by just one month.
"I felt desperate," he says.
I felt like giving up.
Lawson, however, "managed to put a slightly better tint on things."
After seeing several consultants, Abbott decided to pursue his treatment with Prof Loic Lang-Lazdunski, professor in thoracic surgery at Guy's.
"We had an advantage in that I didn't have to be referred, I just rang them up and they saw me," Graham admits.
The average patient would have to get a referral and have funding approved.
Money is crucial for those with mesothelioma to pursue the best available treatments.
But when those treatments eventually, inevitably, fail, many sufferers are faced with another financial worry - about the future of the families they will leave behind.
And so they turn to the courts in pursuit of compensation.
Andrew Lawson contacted Andrew Morgan, from Field Fisher Waterhouse LLP.
"It has been known that asbestos is noxious to health since 1898," says Morgan.
But what changed in the 1960s is that it was realised that even very low levels could be a risk to health.
That is where company negligence came in.
Andrew Lawson and Guy's hospital eventually settled their case, but it was not what Morgan calls a "full-value settlement" since Lawson could not prove definitively that his mesothelioma was down to asbestos exposure at Guy's.
After the inquest into his death, a spokesman for Guy's did confirm, however, that "the asbestos in the basement area concerned was removed in the 1990s."
That was too late for Andrew Lawson.
How to remove asbestos
In fact, pinning lethal asbestos exposure on one company or place of work - usually decades after the fact - has proved a huge problem for mesothelioma sufferers seeking compensation.
Many of their former employers have changed hands or gone out of business.
Insurance records may have been lost.
And those defending themselves from claims know they have time on their side, which the claimants certainly do not.
In response, this year has seen major new legislation which makes it easier for those with mesothelioma to claim compensation even if their former employers can no longer be traced.
The law has created a £350m pot of money, funded by the insurance industry, for those diagnosed after July 2012 who can prove exposure but have no one to sue.
In these cases sufferers will be awarded 80 per cent of what a court might have awarded in a normal compensation case - about £120,000.
About 300 successful claims to the scheme are expected each year.
Andrew Morgan, like many involved with mesothelioma sufferers, thinks that £350m represents "a very good job" for the insurance industry.
"It's a deal written by insurers for insurers" he says, suggesting that the sum is a quarter of what insurers would have had to pay if the passage of time had not intervened, and mesothelioma sufferers were able to track down companies and sue them in the normal way.
Even Mike Penning, then Works and Pensions minister, admitted that the law was "not perfect."
But both Penning and Morgan admit that, with seven victims dying each day, quick action was needed.
"People are suffering so much, and need help today," said Penning during the Mesothelioma Bill's second reading in December last year.
By then, Graham Abbott had been in the hands of Prof Loic Lang-Lazdunski for 19 months.
After their initial consultations, Lang-Lazdunski advised surgery which, in contrast to Tom Treasure, he believes has a positive effect.
This was followed by radiotherapy and chemotherapy - a tri-therapy for which Lang-Lazdunski can boast five year survival rates as high as 40 per cent.
Abbott felt empowered.
"That of course is one of the most important things," says Abbott.
You see it in patients all the time.
There is some drive that keeps you going.
When you give up you can deteriorate very quickly.
Graham Abbott went in for surgery in March 2012.
By the end of August he had completed the last of his six cycles of chemotherapy.
Follow-up scans revealed no sign of the disease.
Then I had my scan in March [2014].
There was multiple spotting [of cancer] around my chest.
I was just about to turn 50.
It's not life threatening.
It's life ending.
Once again Abbott put himself through six cycles of chemotherapy.
Now there is no sign of the tumours.
But the process is both physically and emotionally gruelling.
You have to think about practical things - about the finances when I'm gone for example, or showing my wife how the boiler timer works.
When you get bad news you start getting negative.
You have to look forward.
As the father of Ellie, 16, and Tamsin, 14, that is not always easy.
"It's hard as a parent," he says.
It is difficult to know what to say and how much to say.
When I was first diagnosed I told the girls that I had a condition that meant I wasn't going to become old.
They reacted very differently.
Tamsin is very sociable and boisterous.
She told her friends and we got lots of calls very quickly.
Ellie was more reserved.
She didn't say much.
Such conversations are something that all cancer patients must face.
But for mesothelioma sufferers such discussions are not leavened by hope, by even a glimmer of a possibility of survival.
The disease carries with it (even as it did, eventually, for Stephen Jay Gould) a grim certainty.
As Andrew Morgan says, "mesothelioma is not life threatening.
Bodies of embalmed Pharaohs wrapped in asbestos cloths.
Asbestos fibres used to strengthen cooking pots and provide greater heat resistance.
Pliny the Elder describes asbestos.
A linen has now been invented that is incombustible.
I have seen napkins made of it glowing on the hearths at banquets
Modern commercial asbestos use begins in Italy, where it is used to make paper (even bank notes) and cloth.
Major asbestos mines open in Canada and South Africa, and soon after in America, Itlay and Russia.
It is an ideal insulator for the steam engines and and turbines of the Industrial Revolution.
Global asbestos production rises to more than 30,000 tons annually.
Statisticians with Prudential identify premature mortality among those working with asbestos, who are subsequently refused life insurance.
Nellie Kershaw dies in Rochdale.
Dr William Cooke testifies that asbestos particles in the lungs "were beyond reasonable doubt the primary cause of death."
It is the first case of its kind.
Kershaw's employers, Turner Bros Asbestos, do not admit liability.
No compensation is paid.
World War Two sees intensive shipbuilding, one of the deadliest occupations for asbestos exposure.
Voluntary industry ban on the import of Blue asbestos
Court of Appeal confirms the first successful personal injury claim in Britain as a result of asbestos exposure.
Global asbestos production rises to more than 4,213,000 tons annually.
UK imports 139,000 tons.
Health and Safety Executive in Britain requires all contractors working with asbestos to be licensed.
Import and use of Blue and Brown asbestos banned by law in Britain.
All asbestos use banned in Britain.
Mesothelioma Act passed in the UK.
A £350m compensation scheme is announced.
Asbestos is banned in more than 50 countries, but white asbestos is still used as a cheap building material in many parts of the world.
Global production hovers around 2m tons annually.
China refuses to give Hong Kong right to choose leaders; protesters vow vengeance
China's parliament decided Sunday against letting Hong Kong voters nominate candidates for the 2017 election, despite growing agitation for democratic reform.
The move is likely to spark long-promised protests in Hong Kong's business district, as activists began planning and mobilizing within hours of the announcement.
The decision by China's National People's Congress essentially allows Communist leaders to weed out any candidates not loyal to Beijing.
"It's not unexpected, but it is still infuriating," said legislator Emily Lau, chairwoman of the Democratic Party.
This is not what Beijing promised.
They've lied to the people of Hong Kong.
And it's clear we are dealing with an authoritarian regime.
Defending China's ruling, Li Fei, deputy secretary general of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, said allowing public nominations in the election for Hong Kong's leader would be too "chaotic."
Since 1997, when Britain handed control of Hong Kong back to China, Beijing had promised to allow the region's residents to vote for the chief executive beginning in 2017.
Chinese leaders presented the Sunday ruling as a democratic breakthrough because it gives Hong Kongers a direct vote, but the decision also makes clear that Chinese leaders would retain a firm hold on the process through a nominating committee tightly controlled by Beijing.
And, according to a new clause, only candidates who "love the country, and love Hong Kong" would be allowed.
The ruling comes after a summer that has featured some of the largest and most high-profile protests in Hong Kong in years.
Behind much of the pro-democracy campaign in Hong Kong is the Occupy Central With Love and Peace movement, whose organizers have threatened to shut down the financial district if Beijing does not grant authentic universal suffrage.
On Sunday night, within hours of the announcement, hundreds of Occupy Central supporters had assembled in the rain outside the Hong Kong government's headquarters.
At the demonstration, organizers said that their movement was entering a new stage of civil disobedience and that they would mount waves of protests in the coming weeks.
However, they did not give details, apparently looking to avoid problems with authorities.
In an online statement, organizers said the movement "has considered occupying Central only as the last resort, an action to be taken only if all chances of dialogue have been exhausted and there is no other choice.
We are very sorry to say that today all chances of dialogue have been exhausted and the occupation of Central will definitely happen.
Authorities in Hong Kong have been preparing for Beijing's announcement for days, and security was tight Sunday at the government headquarters, with police and barricades deployed.
Driving the unrest is a sense among many in Hong Kong that they are slowly losing control over their city.
An influx of mainlanders is fueling competition for products and services.
There is also growing fear that Hong Kong's values, such as democracy and freedom of speech, are beginning to bend under increasing pressure from Beijing.
Some have criticized the Occupy Central movement, saying its demonstrations put business - the lifeblood of Hong Kong - at risk.
"The protest they are talking about, it could result in much economic damage, depending on how many are involved and for how long," said legislator Regina Ip, who has long criticized the movement.
We don't want concern to spread that Hong Kong is getting out of control.
This is a perception that is bad for investment.
China's state-run media also has run stories in recent days painting Hong Kong's democracy activists as agents of subversion directed by Western powers.
This summer, activists organized an unofficial referendum on voting rights that drew 780,000 participants - more than a fifth of Hong Kong voters.
And in July, tens of thousands turned out for one of the largest pro-democracy demonstrations in the region's history.
US prom culture hits university life with freshers offered private jet entrances
We're excited to be answering this demand by launching the UK's first luxurious travel service for the students of today.
To make the maximum impact arriving at university, the company also offers transport options including private jet, Rolls-Royce Phantom, Aston Martin or McLaren P1.
Mr Stewart also claimed the service had a safety aspect.
The service is an ideal alternative for students who would usually have to haul their belongings across the country in a dangerously overloaded car.
Paired with our new VIF options, we're looking forward to ensuring this year students reach university with minimum fuss and maximum luxury.
A spokesman for the company said that because the service has just launched there have been no bookings yet but added that "students will be booking the service over the next few weeks."
The company also said that despite students facing tuition fees of £9,000 a year, it still expected to find a market for the service.
Students of today are quite different in terms of expectations and aspirations, compared to students 10, 20, 30 or 40 years ago - it's more important than ever to make a great first impression and VIF is just the way to do that.
However, the National Union of Students criticised the service as out of touch.
Megan Dunn, NUS vice president for higher education, said: "This scheme seems incredibly out of touch with the lives of the majority of students.
Many students starting university this month are facing a cost of living crisis, with available financial support in loans and grants failing to keep pace with spiralling bills for basic essentials, before they can even start thinking about forking out thousands of pounds for something as simple arriving at their halls of residence.
Feminists take on race and police conduct post-Ferguson
The unarmed teenager was killed by a police officer in Ferguson, Mo., earlier this month.
Attendees hold their hands up while chanting, "Hands up, don't shoot," as they wait in line before the funeral.
After two weeks of protests in Ferguson, Mo. over the shooting of unarmed teenager Michael Brown, blogger Miriam Zoila Perez noticed a shift in the online conversation among white feminists.
In her experience, white feminist commenters prioritized gender above race when it came to pushing forward reproductive rights and income inequality.
But as tensions rose in the Midwest and drew nationwide coverage, Perez saw responses from white women that centered 100 percent around race.
Compared to the responses of black women soon after the shooting on August 9, the personal essays with titles like "thoughts on ferguson as a white woman" and "Feminism Is Not Just About Women's Oppression" came relatively late.
But to Perez, it demonstrated a significant shift.
"In feminism, I don't think you get a lot of people talking about whiteness and privilege in such a high level way," she said.
People felt called to voice something about what happened.
It's very emblematic of the crisis we face and because [the situation in Ferguson] is so racialized, they have to call that out.
For Ohio State University English professor Koritha Mitchell, Ferguson brought to light issues that black American women face every day but that aren't seen as "women's issues" in the cultural sphere.
"I can post something funny on Facebook about what's going on with me and my partner and it will get 150 likes from all over the place," said Mitchell.
When I post something about how people of color are under siege in their own country, the silence is deafening.
"How is it safe for women to speak publicly about relationships but not about safety in the public sphere?" she asked.
For black women like Mitchell who have studied race, gender and sexuality in U.S. history, there is no dichotomy between issues regarding race and gender.
To her, black women have not had the luxury of neatly separating the issues; they live the combined reality every day.
While white women are now combining issues of race and gender in mainstream feminist spheres, Angela Hattery, women and gender studies professor at George Mason University, says their predecessors did the opposite.
"Between 1865 and 1890, at least 10,000 black men were lynched and the justification was almost always the rape of a white woman," said Hattery.
You needed the white woman to be complicit in the narrative to justify the lynching.
To Hattery, the breakdown between white and black women came when white suffragists like Susan B. Anthony surveyed the landscape in the late 1800s and saw that the fight for voting rights would only work for one group at a time: women or blacks.
"They made the decision to put their eggs in the basket for votes for women and votes for Blacks would come later," said Hattery.
To look back at things like that gives us a powerful perspective on why women of color don't trust white women.
We haven't done a good job.
We haven't helped black women protect their husbands and sons ever.
Even after women won the right to vote in 1920, it took a decade for white women to organize against lynching as the Association of Southern Woman for the Prevention of Lynching.
The group came nearly 40 years after black women originally asked for assistance, said Mitchell.
To Mitchell, the upswell of white feminist responses to the issues raised by Ferguson - police conduct, racial discrimination - reflect the times white feminists have had to play "catch up" to issues black women have grappled with for generations.
"Wouldn't it be great if the activists who have those [traditional feminist] platforms took as seriously the right to raise a child as they did their right to have birth control?" posed Mitchell.
Second wave feminists who made careers out of fighting for reproductive rights and access to birth control are now figuring out what that means.
Noted white feminist activist Gloria Steinem took to Facebook two weeks after Michael Brown's shooting to post a pointed column by Guardian columnist Rebecca Carroll that demanded more protest from white Americans on the issue of racism.
"I hope women, who have a different but parallel reason for understanding a danger that is located in the body - and racial opinions that are measurably different in public polls - will lead the change," Steinem wrote.
Although Steinem has vouched for a more intersectional feminism that includes issues of race as well as gender, her comments on race in America still puzzle some.
American Enterprise Institute scholar Christina Sommers, author of "Who Stole Feminism?," told She The People that young men in the United States, especially young men of color, are "far more vulnerable than their sisters," but Steinem's remarks on Ferguson counter the criticism she has launched in the past.
We now have hundreds of special programs for girls and young women, but almost nothing for boys.
But when the White House recently initiated a small program, My Brother's Keeper, to help vulnerable black and Hispanic young men, there was an angry reaction from many feminists, including Gloria Steinem.
Police relations with the black community is not the only issue pushing to the forefront of mainstream feminism.
After U.S. border patrol apprehended nearly 63,000 unaccompanied minors at the country's southwest border this year, immigration reform surfaced once again - this time as a women's issue.
Andrea Mercado, co-chair of We Belong Together, an organization mobilizing women for immigration reform, said that in order to rebrand the issue as essential for women, all she needed to do was share immigrant women's stories.
"They speak for themselves," Mercado said.
When the vast majority of employment visas are given to [male immigrants], the women who come with them are left in a position vulnerable to domestic violence and exploitation.
"These stories resonate with women's organizations," she said.
Ipswich 'pig in residence' house for sale
A picture for a house for sale in Suffolk was removed by estate agents when it emerged it showed a large pig at rest in the living room.
On sale for £120,000, the detached one-bedroom property sits on a private road in Ipswich.
The particulars featured a picture of the living room of the house - which included a pig with its head resting on a settee.
Estate agents Connells said the pig in the photo was the home owner's pet.
"However, the photo was put up in error and has since been removed," a spokeswoman for the company said.
In the particulars for the property, Connells described the former meeting house as a "unique one bedroom detached house."
Although the agency has removed the image from its website, it still appears in publicity material.
The house sale has sparked interest on social media, where some have enquired whether the pig is included in the sale.
SW town of Harvey has fresh millionaire after Lotto win
A Harvey lotto player is in the month.
The search is on for a new millionaire in Perth's south-west, with one lucky person taking home nearly $1.1 million from Saturday night's lotto draw.
A Harvey newsagency struck gold in the division one draw for the second time in five years, the last being $1 million in November 2009.
However the lucky winner has yet to come forward.
Owner of the store Steve Forward said the win was creating a buzz around the small town in Perth's south west.
It's the talk of the town and everyone is pretty excited.
We thought a win like this might be close.
Eight WA winners have celebrated division one wins last month, capping off a lucky few weeks for the state's players.
Last week a Canning Vale player became one of five August millionaire's, following a Belmont couple's massive $7.5 million win only a few weeks prior.
The winning couple had played the game for twenty years and said the win gifted them the opportunity to travel the world and buy a new house.
The Harvey millionaire brings WA up to 59 division one winners for the year, totalling in nearly $85 million.
Tony Stewart crashes in return to track
Tony Stewart's return to the track has ended only a little over halfway through his race at Atlanta Motor Speedway.
Stewart hit the wall for the second time after his right front tire blew out on lap 172, ending his night.
Stewart drove his battered car to the garage and then exited without speaking to reporters.
His crew chief Chad Johnston said the 14 team was disappointed, but will now start focusing on next weekend's race in Richmond, Virginia.
"I wish we could have had a better effort and a better finish for him," Johnston said.
We'll go on to Richmond and hope we can do better there.
Stewart first went into the wall earlier in Sunday night's race following a collision with Kyle Busch, requiring work to the right side of his car.
"I went into today with some pretty good hopes of finishing well," Johnston said, adding, "It just didn't work out."
Not long after the second crash, Stewart's car was loaded onto the hauler and the team was packed up and ready to leave.
Stewart skipped three NASCAR Sprint Cup races after his car struck and killed a fellow driver in a dirt-track race in upstate New York.
He decided to return this week, needing to win either at Atlanta or the next race at Richmond to claim a spot in the Chase.
He returned to work as an investigation into the tragic incident that resulted in the death of 20-year-old Kevin Ward Jr., who had stepped on the track to confront Stewart during a race.
Authorities said Friday that the probe into the cause of the crash will last at least another two weeks.
No decision has been made about whether Stewart will face charges.
The three-time champion received a big cheer when he was introduced before the race.
Starting in the 12th spot, Stewart ran in the top 10 early in the race, getting as high as fourth.
Then, on lap 122 after a restart, Busch's No.
18 machine got loose coming out of turn 2 and banged into Stewart, sending both cars against the wall.
Stewart carried on but dropped back to 21st.
Bulgaria's Prison Officers Stage National Protest
Hundreds of prison workers from across Bulgaria have held a national protest in front the Justice Ministry in the capital Sofia.
In a peaceful demonstration, they have reiterated their calls for the old working conditions, which were recently changed, to be restored.
Higher salaries are also among a list of requests due to be discussed with interim Justice Minister Hristo Ivanov.
For a month, officers have protested symbolically against the new working hours, demanding to return to the old 24 hour shifts.
Despite the meetings between the prison officers union and the Justice Ministry representatives, an agreement was not reached, Bulgarian National Radio (BNR) informs.
Negotiations are ongoing, the head of the Chief Directorate on the Execution of Penalties Rosen Zhelyazkov told BNR.
The protest of the prison workers union is expected to be joined by members of the Trade Union Federation of the Employees in the Ministry of Interior.
Genetic disorder often misdiagnosed
A British woman says she spent many years thinking she was going to die after a misdiagnosis.
Karin Rodgers spent most of her teenage life believing that she only had years to live after she was diagnosed with another disease.
She actually had Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) - a group of inherited disorders that damage nerves outside the brain and spine.
Charity CMT UK said that misdiagnosis is a common problem among people with CMT because so little is known about the condition.
About 23,000 people in the UK are thought to have CMT, which can cause motor symptoms such as muscle weakness, an awkward gait and curled toes.
Sufferers can also experience numbness or pain and the condition is incurable and progressive, meaning symptoms get worse over time.
When Rodgers was 13 she was under the impression that she suffered from Friedreich's ataxia (FA) - a condition which had a very poor prognosis.
Rodgers thought that she was going to be wheelchair bound by the time she was 18 and dead before she reached her 30s.
The mother-of-two, who is now 51, said: "As a child I knew I couldn't do the same things as others.
I was falling daily and everything took me longer to do.
I could never roller-skate or skateboard with other kids and got bullied at school a lot because of the way I walked and ran.
Rodgers said when she was aged 13, after several operations to release her Achilles tendons and straighten out her feet, she took a peak at her medical notes when her consultant left the room which said that she suffered from FA.
"I felt guilty because I'd been nosy and so I didn't tell anybody, but I did come home, look up the condition at the library and wrote to the FA Association," she said.
When I got the information back I was gobsmacked and in the worst state of panic possible.
I thought I'd be in a wheelchair at 18 and dead by the time I was 25 and in between gradually lose all my ability.
I was going through this on my own and I planned my own funeral.
She said by the time she reached 17 she realised that her walking abilities hadn't deteriorated as much as she thought they would have and asked her surgeon about it.
He just stood up and hugged me and said 'my dear I don't think you have it, as you would be in a wheelchair now.'
I think you have something a lot less life threatening.
After some genetic testing she was found to have CMT.
"When he explained what CMT was, I thought I'd drawn the lucky straw," she said.
Charity CMT UK has launched CMT awareness month to try to draw attention to the condition.
Washington-area business owners" tax burden mounts as economy rebounds
A rebounding economy means more customers, higher sales and new jobs.
It also means higher taxes.
State and local tax bills for companies across the country grew modestly last year as the economic recovery accelerated, according to new research released last week, and Washington-area firms were no exception.
District, Maryland and Virginia businesses collectively paid $27.6 billion to state and local coffers in fiscal 2013, an increase of 3.8 percent over the $26.6 billion collected in 2012.
Businesses" state and local tax burdens last year expanded by 4.3 percent, to $671 billion, compared with 3.9 percent the year before, and it was the third consecutive year of growth after back-to-back years of shrinking bills in 2009 and 2010.
State taxes rose at a faster clip, 4.3 percent, than local levies, 3.9 percent, according to the study, which was conducted by professional services firm Ernst & Young and the Center on State Taxation, a tax policy group.
More than half of the District's tax revenue, 56 percent, comes from business taxes, while 36 percent of Maryland's revenue comes from firms.
Virginia, at 28 percent, generates the least amount of tax revenue, proportionately, from business.
Much of the growth in tax revenue is being driven by a rebound in companies" real estate values, researchers say, which pushed property taxes up 3.7 percent this year after three consecutive years of sub-1 percent growth.
While a large share of those gains came from big states such as California, New York and Texas, it appears to be the same story in the Washington area as well.
Companies in the District, Maryland and Virginia collectively forked over $10 billion in state and local property taxes last year, up from $9.6 billion in 2012 - year-over-year growth of 4.2 percent.
But the apparent bounceback in property values isn't doing nearly as much to inflate state and local tax revenues in Maryland, where property taxes amount to barely more than a fifth of companies" tax bills.
Virginia and D.C. firms pay nearly half of their state and local tax bills in the form of property taxes.
"What's happening in Maryland is that so much of their property, especially the tax base surrounding the D.C. area, is owned either by the government or by nonprofits, which don't pay property taxes," said Douglas Lindholm, executive director of the Center on State Taxation.
So Maryland is forced to rely much more heavily on, for example, its income taxes to pay for the same services you have in other states.
The recent rebound in business tax revenue cannot all be attributed to the recovering real estate market.
Business incomes also appear to be on the mend, according to the data.
Companies in the region reported state corporate income taxes of $2.3 billion, up from $2.1 billion in 2012.
Maryland collected $1 billion in corporate income tax revenue, the most in the region.
While trending in the same direction, the local tax burden on businesses isn't growing at the same pace in all three places.
The District's rate of growth was level with the national average, at 4.3 percent, while Maryland's growth was substantially faster at 4.9 percent.
Only Virginia posted a below-average tax bill bump of 4.1 percent.
Virginia has the lowest corporate income tax by far of the three jurisdictions (all of which have flat corporate rates) at 6 percent.
Maryland's corporate rate is 8.25 percent, while the District's stands at a relatively high 9.975 percent.
A similar study by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce earlier this year showed that Virginia had lower state and local business taxes and an overall better business tax climate than Maryland.
The District wasn't evaluated in the study.
Despite its advantage, Virginia is facing competitive pressure from its neighbor to the south.
North Carolina recently signed legislation lowering its corporate rate this year from 6.9 percent to 6 percent, in line with Virginia, and the rate will drop to 5 percent next year.
If the state continues to meet revenue goals in the coming year, the law could push the state's business income tax rate as low as 3 percent by 2017.
Meanwhile, small businesses in the Washington region seem to be faring better and thus paying more state and local taxes, according to the recent study.
Business taxes paid as personal income taxes by small business owners - the pass-through structure by which most small firms are organized - in the District, Maryland and Virginia surged 20 percent last year to $2.4 billion, a much faster rate of growth than overall business taxes.
Researchers say that trend and the increase in business taxes nationwide are likely to continue this year, with overall sales tax revenue for state and local governments up 6.2 percent in the first three quarters of 2014 compared with the same period last year.
However, the Washington area may lag behind as the slowdown in federal spending takes its toll on the region's labor market.
Joan Rivers' Family Keeping 'Our Fingers Crossed'
Joan Rivers has been unconscious since her arrival three days ago at a New York City hospital, but her daughter expressed hope today that the 81-year-old comedian will recover from her illness.
"Thank you for your continued love and support," Melissa Rivers said in a statement today.
We are keeping our fingers crossed.
Her mother arrived at Mount Sinai Hospital Thursday after an emergency call that she was in cardiac arrest at an Upper East Side clinic, Yorkville Endoscopy, sources said.
Doctors are intentionally keeping her sedated and under close supervision until they're more comfortable with her condition, which remains "serious."
Reaction has been widespread, including overwhelming online support from the likes of Donald Trump, Montel Williams and Kelly Ripa.
Amazon buys Twitch for $1.04 billion
AMAZON just confirmed what the Information reported Monday morning: The online retailer - and video producer, and a hundred other things - is buying video streaming service Twitch for $1.04 billion ($US970 million).
The announcement comes as a surprise, not because no one expected Twitch to be bought, but because YouTube was widely expected to be the buyer.
Three months ago the sale of Twitch to Google's video service, for a cool billion, looked all wrapped up, and the pairing seemed natural.
Twitch, founded only three years ago as Justin.tv, set out to be a general streaming service - a live version of YouTube.
Instead, it quickly became a platform for gamers to broadcast their in-game feats; a "YouTube for live gaming," in Business Insider's words.
Twitch's interface.
And "let's play," a genre of videos in which wiseacres give (mostly older) games the Mystery Science Theater treatment, are already popular on YouTube.
The point is, YouTube comes up a lot when describing Twitch, so the news that YouTube was acquiring Twitch was greeted with a yawn, a textbook example of an entrenched tech company buying out a potential competitor.
It's a mystery why the deal with YouTube fell through, considering it was reportedly willing to pay no less than Amazon.
All we have at the moment is this statement from Twitch CEO Emmett Shear: "We chose Amazon because they believe in our community, they share our values and long-term vision, and they want to help us get there faster."
Another mystery, frankly, is Twitch's incredible success.
To snobs like me who declare that they'd rather play sports than watch them, it's hard to see the appeal of watching games rather than taking up a controller myself.
It's one thing to look over your friend's shoulder at 3 in the morning as she creeps through Resident Evil, and quite another to watch some rando get 20 headshots in a row in Call of Duty.
All the games you could be watching right now.
Another problem is that many of today's most popular games are first-person, so watching footage of them, without controlling the viewpoint yourself, can be a Do It Right-worthy recipe for a headache.
I concede that speedruns, in which the Roger Bannisters of our electronic age complete entire games in record time, are entertaining.
But unless someone is a virtuoso at gaming or humour, his Twitch channel isn't likely to be all that interesting.
But what do sceptics like me know?
Twitch has 55 million unique visitors monthly and is the fourth-largest source of peak internet traffic.
How, exactly, will Amazon capitalise on this?
It's hard to imagine Twitch being folded into Amazon Instant Video as elegantly as YouTube could have just swallowed Twitch.
But Twitch has something any company would love to attract: hordes of advertiser-coveted young men.
As Twitch chief Shear said, Amazon and Twitch "are both believers in the future of gaming," and the medium shows no sign of shrinking, even - gulp - as a spectator sport.
Ice Bucket Challenge participant dislocates her jaw
Isabelle Roberts from in the UK shouted so hard while freezing water was poured over her head that she damaged the bone structure of her face.
This Ice Bucket Challenge went painfully wrong.
A woman has been hospitalised after screaming so hard during the Ice Bucket Challenge, that she dislocated her jaw.
Isabelle Roberts shouted so violently while freezing water was poured over her head that she damaged the structure of her face.
"The water was so cold so I screamed, but as I did it my jaw just started to stick," she told The Mirror.
Ice water is poured over the 20-year-old's.
Isabelle Roberts moments before the accident
I tried to close my mouth but it would not close, it was locked, and then I came to the realisation that something was up.
Then my mum and sister came to the realisation and they started wetting themselves, but I had to be rushed to A & E.
The 20-year-old, from the UK, was taken to hospital to have her jaw repositioned after taking part in the viral craze on Tuesday.
The clip has become an internet sensation, having been shared thousands of times on Facebook and twitter.
Smart ways to save on college textbooks
With the cost of college textbooks surpassing $1,000 a year for many students, soon-to-be sophomore Matt Schroeder came up with a smart way to trim costs.
He worked out a system of borrowing books from upperclassmen, offering nominal compensation to get them to delay selling them back.
"My calculus book that usually costs $180, I got for the semester for $10 and a Chick-fil-A biscuit," says Schroeder, 19, who attends Covenant College in Georgia.
Required texts for his last semester would have cost $430, he says.
He spent $120.
The College Board says the average student will spend more than $1,200 a year on textbooks and school supplies, but students have a variety of options for managing these costs.
Online outlets and creative approaches like Schroeder's are increasingly the go-to choices for students.
Renting textbooks is on the rise, allowing students to use a book for the semester, often at a significant discount to buying.
Neebo Inc, which operates more than 250 campus bookstores, says textbook rentals have doubled since 2011.
Industry research shows that about one-fourth of books at college bookstores in this past spring semester were rented, says Neebo Vice President Trevor Meyer.
Fewer than half of all texts are purchased at campus bookstores, according to the National Association of College Stores trade association.
Here is the 101 on the best ways to score a deal.
Buying online
Some new book prices can be one-third of what you might find at the campus bookstore if you go online.
The ninth edition of "Calculus" by Ron Larson, Bruce Edwards, and Robert Hostetler carries a list price of nearly $290 but can be purchased new for $239.99 at specialty textbook retailer Chegg.com.
Buying used
If you do not mind other people's notes or wear and tear, used texts are a good option.
"Calculus" is selling for $93.49 used on Chegg.com.
Matt Casaday, 25, a senior at Brigham Young University, says he had paid 42 cents on Amazon.com for a used copy of "Strategic Media Decisions: Understanding The Business End Of The Advertising Business."
The book was selling for $48 new.
Academics like Ingrid Bracey, director of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst's College Without Walls, suggest students check with their professors to see if previous editions are acceptable.
Sometimes the updates are not relevant to the classwork.
If so, old editions can often be found for a tiny fraction of the cost of the latest version.
Besides Chegg and Amazon, eBay Inc's Half.com is a popular alternative for used books.
Renting
Renting your textbooks is worth considering if you take reasonable care of them, you remember to return them and you do not care to own them after you complete the class.
You can save more than 80 per cent of the cost of buying a book new.
For example, a student could rent "Calculus" for the length of the semester for about $20.
Know the rules of the store you rent from, including any penalties you could be assessed for taking notes, highlighting, or wear and tear.
Renter, beware: If you fail to return the book, penalties can actually exceed the cost of buying it new.
E-books
Getting e-books instead of traditional texts is another option.
Sometimes those books are essentially rented by providing the electronic license for a specific period from distributors such as Amazon.com, Chegg and Barnes & Noble Inc .
Chegg will rent "Calculus" for six months for about $61.
Bracey says students in literature classes can often find the best bargains since many classics are now available to download for free, while science and engineering texts can be extremely expensive.
No matter what, shop around.
Joe Gault, 29, who is about to enter Pepperdine Law School, recommends using the ISBN number to price books since it ensures you are shopping for the right text.
Before ordering online, Gault says, be sure to check if the book is actually in stock.
He learned that lesson the hard way.
A book he purchased was back-ordered for four weeks, and he ended up paying full price at the college bookstore.
Why the Guardians of the Galaxy couldn't save the box office
Sylvester Stallone's The Expendables 3 has made back less than $30 million of its $90 million budget in the US, while Sin City: A Dame to Kill For has made back only $12 million of its $70 million budget.
The Cameron Diaz vehicle Sex Tape took only $14.6 million in its opening weekend, while children's films such as How To Train Your Dragon 2 are also showing disappointing box office returns.
An article from Telegraph film critic Robbie Collin indicates that, when it comes to children's movies, the poor quality of the films themselves might be to blame.
Collin called 2014 the "the worst" year yet for children's films, and described How To Train Your Dragon 2 as a merely "functional" fantasy sequel.
But when it comes to film pitched at a slightly older market, it appears that the issue might not necessarily lie with the quality of the films themselves.
In July, Entertainment Weekly compared the average CinemaScore and Metacritic ratings for every summer release playing on at least 2,000 screens between May's Memorial Day holiday and July 20, for 2013 and for this year.
The results, which take the opinion of both cinema audiences and film critics into account, suggest that this year's crop of films are of similar calibre last year's hits.
Some commentators have suggested that changing viewing habits and the increased popularity of web streaming services such as Netflix may be to blame.
Director Jon Favreau, who is currently working on Disney's forthcoming Jungle Book film, told the website Hollywood Reporter: "I think times are changing."
We have to acknowledge that and not try to chase what used to be.
In contrast to Hollywood's current box office slump, Netflix recently saw revenue from its streaming content service reach $1.2bn, almost doubling last year's figure of $837m.
Last summer, director Steven Spielberg criticised studios for relying too much on comic book franchises, and predicted a Hollywood "meltdown."
In light of the current downturn, some commentators are arguing that his dire prophecy may have held some truth to it.
With summer 2015 set to usher in a slate of potential big box office hits, including Avengers: Age of Ultron, Minions and Jurassic World, other figures within the film industry are feeling more optimistic.
X-Men producer Simon Kinberg recently described the drop in box office takings as simply "cyclical," telling Hollywood Reporter: "Next summer will be the biggest box-office summer in history, and nobody will be worrying about the business."
Nato summit: First protests in Newport and Cardiff
There have been protests over the weekend by those opposed to the Nato summit in Newport.
On Saturday, hundreds gathered in Newport city centre for an anti-Nato march.
And on Sunday in Cardiff, around 150 people came together at Cardiff's county hall for what was described as a counter-summit.
Stephen Fairclough has been following developments for us over the weekend and has spoken to protesters who have travelled from Bridgend to Belgium.
Teens airlifted from Blue Mountains
TWO teenage bushwalkers have been winched to safety after spending the night stranded in the NSW Blue Mountains.
THE 16-year-old girl and 18-year-old man went hiking just after midday on Sunday at Govetts Leap in Blackheath.
Concerned relatives called police about 8pm when they hadn't returned home.
A search party involving local police and rescue squad was sent out and the pair were found about 11pm near Bridal Veil Falls.
The girl had injured her knee and the man had fallen and hit his head.
Officers remained with the pair overnight and they were winched out on Monday morning.
They were taken by ambulance in a stable condition to Blue Mountains Hospital.
France's Socialists should 'shut up and sort France out', Francois Hollande's key ally says
Mr Valls called on the deeply divided Left to "show its affection" for the embattled Socialist president, whose reshuffle has failed to meet the approval of the vast majority of French.
The president deserves everyone's respect, he deserves our loyality, he deserves our support.
"It is our duty to remain at his sides," he said, to applause.
As a placatory gesture, the prime minister insisted his government would not call into question France's controversial 35-hour working week, despite inflammatory suggestions it should relax the rules earlier in the week by Emmanuel Macron, the new economy minister.
On Saturday, Mr Hollande had implored his fellow Socialists to remain "united" with the government.
But Christiane Taubira, the justice minister, put a spanner in the works by turning up to a meeting of rebel Socialist MPs and criticising the Socialist Party for letting the French "lose faith in their future."
Marine Le Pen, the far-Right National Front leader, heaped scorn on the Socialists' constant in-fighting by saying she did not see the new Valls government lasting more than just a few months.
Francois Hollande the Emperor has no clothes, but neither has Prince Manuel Valls, forced to put together a new government when the previous one didn't even survive the summer.
"And the new one won't survive the fall or the winter either," Miss Le Pen told supporters.
She reiterated her party's call for a parliamentary dissolution, saying she was confident it could win early elections and stood ready to govern.
France's ruling party suffered a drubbing in March municipal elections and the far-right National Front came out on top in EU elections in May.
A poll in Sunday's Journal du Dimanche found 76 per cent of French believe the Socialist Party risks breaking up into several rival factions before the end of Mr Hollande's presidential term in 2017.
Pascal Perrineau, a political scientist at Sciences Po university, warned the French would fast lose patience unless the new Socialist government succeeds in improving the economy and record unemployment.
"It has a small window of opportunity, but public opinion needs to quickly feel things are changing," he warned.
Otherwise, the situation could further degenerate.
Norwegian Cruise nears $3 billion Prestige Cruises deal
Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd NCHL.O, the world's third largest cruise operator, is in advanced talks to acquire peer Prestige Cruises International Inc for around $3 billion, according to people familiar with the matter.
A deal would give Norwegian Cruise, a company with a market value of $6.8 billion, access to Prestige Cruises' luxury cruise ships and affluent clientele as it competes with bigger rivals Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd (RCL.N) and Carnival Corp (CCL.N).
An agreement may be announced as early as this week, the sources said on Sunday, cautioning that the talks could still fall apart.
The owner of Prestige Cruises, private equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC (APO.N), also owns a 20 percent stake in Norwegian Cruise.
The sources asked not to be identified because the negotiations are not public.
Norwegian Cruise and Prestige Cruises representatives did not respond to requests for comment, while an Apollo spokesman declined to comment.
Miami-based Norwegian Cruise operates 13 cruise ships in routes spanning North America, the Mediterranean, the Baltic, Central America and the Caribbean.
It had revenues of $2.57 billion in 2013, up 13 percent from 2012.
Prestige Cruises, also based in Miami, operates under the Oceania and Regent brands, which together have eight cruise ships traveling to Scandinavia, Russia, the Mediterranean, North America, Asia, Africa and South America.
It posted revenues of $1.2 billion in 2013, up 6 percent from the year earlier.
The $29 billion cruise industry is expected to benefit in the coming years from the rise of the middle class in emerging economies such as China and India.
Companies are racing to position themselves as the cruise operators of choice for these new customers.
Prestige Cruises registered with U.S. regulators for an initial public offering in January 2014.
Apollo has been the company's majority shareholder following an $850 million deal in 2007.
Norwegian Cruise was created in its current form in 2000 through a merger with a cruise operator owned by Genting Bhd (GENT.KL), the leisure and casino conglomerate controlled by Malaysian billionaire Lim Kok Thay.
Apollo made a $1 billion investment in Norwegian Cruise in 2008.
Norwegian Cruise went public in January 2013.
Genting had a 28 percent stake, Apollo had a 20 percent stake and private equity firm TPG Capital LP had an 8 percent stake in the company as of the end of June, according to a regulatory filing.
Carnival, Royal Caribbean Cruises and Norwegian Cruise together account for 82 percent of the North American cruise passenger berth capacity, according to Prestige Cruises' initial public offering registration document.
Hong Kong pro-democracy activists heckle China official day after vote ruling
A group of Beijing loyalists stood nearby waving China's flag.
The NPC Standing Committee on Sunday endorsed a framework to let only two or three candidates run in Hong Kong's 2017 leadership vote.
All candidates must first obtain majority backing from a nominating committee likely to be stacked with Beijing loyalists.
The decision makes it almost impossible for opposition democrats to get on the ballot prompted pro-democracy activists to renew their vow to bring Hong Kong's financial hub to a halt with "Occupy Central" protests.
Political reform has been a major source of tension in Hong Kong, with China party leaders fearful of calls for democracy spreading to other cities.
Following the publication by Beijing of a white paper outlining China's authority over Hong Kong in June, democracy activists held an unofficial referendum on voting in the special administrative region, and hundreds of thousands marched to the city's business district and staged a sit-in.
Li's briefing is being organized by the Hong Kong government and China's Liaison Office in Hong Kong.
The vice chairman of the Standing Committee's Legislative Affairs Commission, Zhang Rongshun, and the Deputy Director of the State Council's Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office, Feng Wei, were also due to speak in a series of briefings throughout the day.
Student activists said they would gather outside of the Hong Kong chief executive's office in the afternoon.
Britain made no mention of democracy for Hong Kong until the dying days of about 150 years of colonial rule.
Putin demands Kiev open 'statehood' talks with eastern Ukraine
Russian President Vladimir Putin demanded Sunday that the Ukrainian government cease battling separatists in the country's east and immediately begin negotiations on the breakaway region's "statehood," according to Russian news accounts of his remarks.
His spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, later clarified that Putin didn't mean to imply that the eastern Ukrainian territory under separatist control would become part of Russia, but that its status within Ukraine had to be revised to give the Russian-speaking region the power to protect its rights and interests.
But Putin's call upon the Kiev government to negotiate with the pro-Russia insurgents as equals corresponded with the apparent strategy he has followed since the violence began five months ago: Help the separatists take territory and force the Ukrainian government to grant the newly proclaimed Novorossiya region virtual independence to align with Russia instead of the West.
In an interview with state-run Channel One television, Putin denounced the Ukrainian military campaign to recover separatist-held territory in the eastern Donetsk and Luhansk regions that were seized in March and April, after Moscow annexed Ukraine's Crimean peninsula on March 18.
The Kremlin and the separatists have lately branded the seized territory "Novorossiya," or "New Russia," a term that harkens to pre-revolutionary glory days of the Russian empire.
Putin said that anyone who believed peace talks are in the offing as Ukrainian politicians launch campaigns for an Oct. 26 parliamentary election and while government troops are attacking civilian communities in separatist-held regions is "a prisoner to illusions," Itar-Tass reported.
"We must immediately commence substantive talks and not only on technical issues, but also on the political organization of society and the statehood status of southeast Ukraine in order to serve the interests of people living there," he said.
Peskov said Putin's reference to statehood was meant in the context of the broader autonomy that has been discussed for months with the Kiev leadership as it struggles to allay fears in the Russian-speaking areas that their cultural and linguistic rights are in danger.
Only the Ukrainian government can grant the eastern regions the necessary autonomy, Peskov said.
It's not a matter to be negotiated between Ukraine and Russia, Peskov said, "because it's not a conflict between Russia and Ukraine, but an internal Ukrainian conflict."
The Kremlin spokesman's intercession to correct the "misinterpretation" of Putin's remarks underscored the Russian leadership's approach to dealing with the separatist rebellion in the east differently from its outright seizure of Crimea, where the majority of the 2 million population is ethnic Russian.
Moscow would have a much more difficult fight to annex even the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of eastern Ukraine, as most of the 6.5 million residents are not Russian and pre-conflict polls showed broad support for staying within Ukraine.
The autonomy that Russian diplomats have discussed in international forums would grant regional governments in Ukraine the authority to determine their own trade agreements and foreign relations, effectively handing the Kremlin de facto control over territory that would link the Russian mainland with Crimea.
The Black Sea peninsula annexed five months ago is home to Russia's main naval fleet as well as commercial maritime facilities and historic coastal resorts.
The regions between Russia's Rostov area and Crimea are also home to mines, factories and foundries that produce vital components for the Russian military.
Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko proposed during his inauguration speech on June 7 that Ukrainian lawmakers - after new elections -- weigh constitutional amendments to give more control to the disparate regions over their finances and the status of languages.
But his vision of autonomy appears to differ sharply from that of the Kremlin and the separatist rebels Moscow is accused of arming and instigating.
Putin's latest call on Kiev to deal with the separatist leaders as equals followed new advances by the rebels last week after Russian troops and tanks entered eastern Ukraine from a previously peaceful area along the Sea of Azov.
The Russian-backed separatists took control of the town of Novoazovsk in a drive that Ukrainian security officials say they fear is the opening of a campaign to seize the strategic coastal territory all the way to Crimea.
That has spurred a massive civilian and military effort to fortify Mariupol, a steelmaking port of 500,000 that lies between Novoazovsk and the narrow gateway into the Crimean peninsula.
Poroshenko on Saturday addressed a meeting of European Union leaders in Brussels to urge action to prevent further Russian aggression against Ukraine, a former Soviet republic that has been independent for 23 years.
"We are close to the point of no return," Poroshenko warned.
Thousands of foreign troops and hundreds of foreign tanks are now on the territory of Ukraine.
The EU summit took no definitive action; the leaders called for drafting more punishing sanctions on Russia to be imposed in the event of an unspecified escalation of the Ukraine crisis.
Ukrainian soldiers had to withdraw from their positions in Ilovaysk after two columns of Russian armor and 1,000 troops last week moved into the Donetsk region to bolster the beleaguered separatists, Col. Andriy Lysenko, spokesman for the Ukrainian National Security and Defense Council, told reporters in Kiev on Saturday.
The first of a reported 63 Ukrainian soldiers who were trapped in Ilovaysk by the Russian incursion were swapped Sunday for 10 Russian paratroopers captured inside Ukrainian territory a week ago, Lysenko said Sunday.
Nude photo scandal embroils Australian celebrities and Gabi Grecko
Geoffrey Edelsten has vented his disgust at hackers who may have stolen nude images of fiancee Gabi Grecko and a who's who of Hollywood A-listers.
Tinseltown is reeling after a series of explicit photos showing a nude Jennifer Lawrence hit the internet in a major celebrity hacking scandal.
The hacker responsible is said to have 60 nude photos of Hunger Games star Lawrence and superstars including models Kate Upton and Cara Delevingne, singers Rihanna, Ariana Grande and Lea Michelle and actors Kirsten Dunst.
Australian actors Teresa Palmer, Emily Browning, Yvonne Strahovski, and Melbourne-based Grecko also had personal pictures allegedly retrieved due to an iCloud leak.
There are 101 celebrity names on the list.
Edelsten, who proposed to Grecko last month, told Confidential: "It's disgusting".
All private correspondence and images should remain private.
It's disgraceful that personal information can be stolen and dispersed to others.
Grecko, who is in New York, reportedly told a news website the hacking was "shameful" and those targeted would "feel violated."
The hacker is believed to have 30 images of Palmer with ex-boyfriend Scott Speedman, including two frames where she is lounging topless in a pool.
Palmer's film credits include Love And Honor, opposite Liam Hemsworth.
Palmer, Chuck star Strahovski and Sucker Punch actress Browning yesterday had no comment on the hacked pictures.
A representative for Lawrence told TMZ: "This is a flagrant violation of privacy."
Actor Seth Rogen lashed out at the hacker, tweeting: "Posting pics hacked from a cell phone is really no different than selling stolen merchandise."
Just legally speaking, it shouldn't be tolerated to report stolen pics.
In 911 Call, Professor Admits to Shooting Girlfriend
In a 911 call, his voice only slightly shaky, college professor Shannon Lamb told police he had shot his girlfriend and officers needed to get over to their house.
Lamb made a point to say his "sweet dog" was there alive and probably upset, and said the dead woman's family contacts could be found on her phone.
Inside the home, officers found Amy Prentiss' body and a hand-written note scribbled on a white legal pad: "I am so very sorry I wish I could take it back I loved Amy and she is the only woman who ever loved me," read the letter authorities say was signed by Lamb.
There was no indication that Lamb, who was teaching two online classes for Delta State University in Cleveland, Mississippi, had already traveled 300 miles to the school's campus, where police believe he shot and killed a well-liked history professor, Ethan Schmidt, in the doorway to his office.
Delta State University police chief Lynn Buford said university officials heard about the shooting at 10:18 a.m.
He said Lamb made the fateful 911 call sometime after that.
By the end of the day, there would be one more death: Lamb took his own life as police closed in on him.
A day after the school shooting forced students and faculty to hide behind locked doors, authorities were still trying to piece together what motivated Lamb.
The details released by investigators at both ends of the state as well as students and staff who knew him helped paint a picture of a talented but possibly troubled teacher.
Students said they looked forward to his class.
Police in Gautier, where Prentiss died, said he had no history of violence or criminal record.
Schmidt himself had included Lamb in a book he wrote where he acknowledged the "wonderful people" he shared his academic life with.
Both taught in the Division of Social Sciences and History, which lists 17 faculty members, and many students took courses from both.
At the same time, there were some inclinations of problems.
A student who praised Lamb, Brandon Beavers, said he also seemed agitated and jittery, "like there was something wrong with him."
Another student, Mikel Sykes, said Lamb told him he was dealing with stress at the end of the 2014-15 academic year.
Lamb had earlier asked Delta State University for a medical leave of absence, saying he had a health issue of some sort.
This year, he was only teaching two online classes.
Recent changes in the university's hiring policies meant that the doctorate Lamb had worked so hard to earn would not guarantee him an automatic tenure track to become an assistant professor.
University President William LaForge said he didn't know of any conflict between Lamb and Schmidt but "obviously there was something in Mr. Lamb's mind."
Those are questions Lamb can no longer answer.
After fleeing the campus, police later picked up Lamb's trail when he crossed back into Mississippi from Arkansas.
Before he could be apprehended, Lamb killed himself with a single .38-caliber pistol in the backyard of a home about a mile south of his parents' home on the outskirts of Greenville, Mississippi, said Washington County Coroner Methel Johnson.
His car was still running in the driveway.
It was not immediately clear why Lamb went to that home, though Johnson said she believes he knew the people who lived there.
Lamb grew up in the area.
Lamb started working at the university, which has 3,500 students in a city of about 12,000, in 2009 and taught geography and education classes.
He received a doctorate in education in the spring.
One of Lamb's longtime friends described him as smart, charismatic and funny.
Carla Hairston said she was 15 and Lamb was 20 when they met through mutual friends.
She and her friends were in high school, and he was the cool older guy who tried for several years to teach her to play guitar.
He was quite the heartthrob back then.
All the girls would melt when he was around," said Hairston, now 40 and living in the Jackson suburb of Brandon.
Lamb and Prentiss had apparently been dating for some time.
In the 911 call, Lamb said "I killed my wife," but there was no record of them ever marrying.
They had a dog named Lightning that lived with them at the brick house that backs up to a bayou in Gautier.
Police said the dog was OK.
Prentiss' ex-husband, Shawn O'Steen, said they divorced 15 years ago but remained friends and had a daughter who's now 19.
"She was completely devastated," O'Steen said of his daughter.
She and her mother were absolutely best friends.
O'Steen said he had not met Lamb but heard through his daughter Abigail that Lamb was interested in music and played the blues.
Lamb met Prentiss when he and Abigail both performed at a summer fair three years ago.
Later, they played together in the occasional gig.
O'Steen said his daughter writes and sings her own music.
Prentiss was a nurse who worked for various companies online.
Mike Shaffer, a bartender and sometimes entertainment coordinator at The Julep Room, a dimly lit bar near Gautier, said he last saw Lamb and Prentiss the night of Sept. 5, after Lamb had finished playing his guitar and harmonica for a sparse crowd.
There was no sign of anything amiss.
"Just a happy couple," he said.
We were cutting up and throwing one-liners at each other.
I mean, they both had a good sense of wit about them.
Schmidt, the slain professor, directed the first-year seminar program and specialized in Native American and colonial history, said Don Allan Mitchell, an English professor at the school.
He was married and had three young children.
He studied at Emporia State University in Kansas and was president of his fraternity and student government.
On the Delta State campus in Cleveland on Tuesday night, about 900 people, including faculty members, staff, students, and members of the community, attended a candlelight memorial.
Schmidt's wife, Liz, and brother Jeff Schmidt also attended the vigil, during which the university choir sang "Bright Morning Star" and "Amazing Grace."
Classes resume Wednesday.
"We're trying to get our students to come back," LaForge said.
The crisis is over.
This is a day of healing.
Amy and Rogelio Solis reported from Cleveland, Mississippi.
Associated Press writers Emily Wagster Pettus in Greenville, Mississippi, and Rebecca Santana in New Orleans contributed to this report.
This story has been corrected to reflect that police are now saying Lamb made the 911 call after shooting Schmidt, and that while Lamb referred to Prentiss as his wife in the 911 call, there is no indication the two ever married.
Toys R Us Plans to Hire Fewer Holiday Season Workers
Toys R Us says it won't hire as many holiday season employees as it did last year, but the toy and baby products retailer says it will give current employees and seasonal workers a chance to work more hours.
The company said it plans to hire 40,000 people to work at stores and distribution centers around the country, down from the 45,000 hired for the 2014 holiday season.
Most of the jobs will be part-time.
The company said it will start interviewing applicants this month, with staff levels rising from October through December.
While the holidays themselves are months away, holiday shopping season is drawing closer and companies are preparing to hire temporary employees to help them staff stores and sell, ship and deliver products.
Michael J. Fox Jokes About His 'Date' With Princess Diana
The premiere of "Back to the Future" was a huge moment for Michael J. Fox professionally.
It was noteworthy because of personal reasons, too.
"We were sitting in the theater waiting for the royals to come in and I realize that the seat next to me is empty, and it dawns on me that Princess Diana is going to be sitting next to me," he said in a trailer for an upcoming documentary, "Back in Time."
The movie starts and it occurs to me that I'm a fake yawn and an arm stretch away from being on a date with the Princess of Wales.
"Back in Time," a documentary about "Back to the Future," features interviews with Fox, Lea Thompson, and Christopher Lloyd, as well as director Robert Zemeckis, and executive producer Steven Spielberg.
"Back for the Future" premiered 30 years ago.
"It really is for me," said Spielberg, "inarguably the greatest time travel movie ever put on film."
"Back in Time" will be available on VOD, DVD and in select movie theaters Oct.
UN Chief Says There Is No Military Solution in Syria
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon says his response to Russia's stepped up military support for Syria is that "there is no military solution" to the nearly five-year conflict and more weapons will only worsen the violence and misery for millions of people.
The U.N. chief again urged all parties, including the divided U.N. Security Council, to unite and support inclusive negotiations to find a political solution.
Ban told a news conference Wednesday that he plans to meet with foreign ministers of the five permanent council nations - the U.S., Russia, China, Britain and France - on the sidelines of the General Assembly's ministerial session later this month to discuss Syria.
He expressed regret that divisions in the council and among the Syrian people and regional powers "made this situation unsolvable."
Ban urged the five permanent members to show the solidarity and unity they did in achieving an Iran nuclear deal in addressing the Syria crisis.
8 Poll Numbers That Show Donald Trump Is For Real
Some have tried to label him a flip-flopper.
Others have dismissed him as a joke.
And some are holding out for an implosion.
But no matter how some Republicans are trying to drag Donald Trump down from atop the polls, it hasn't worked (yet).
Ten of the last 11 national polls have shown Donald Trump's lead at double digits, and some are starting to ask seriously what it means for the real estate mogul's nomination chances.
Of course, it's still early in the election cycle.
None of this is to say that Trump is likely to win the Republican nomination.
Pundits point out that at this time in 2011, Rick Perry's lead was giving way to a rising Herman Cain, neither of whom won even one state in the nomination process.
And there are many reasons he would struggle in a general election.
But outside groups like Jeb Bush's Super PAC and the economic conservative group Club for Growth are recognizing Trump's staying power and beginning to unload their dollars to topple him.
Here are some recent poll numbers that suggest that the real estate mogul isn't just a passing phase:
Trump's favorability ratings have turned 180 degrees.
Right before Donald Trump announced his candidacy in mid-June, a Monmouth University poll showed only two in 10 Republicans had a positive view of the real estate mogul.
By mid-July, it was 40 percent.
In early August, it was 52 percent.
Now, six in 10 Republicans have a favorable view of Donald Trump.
Roughly three in 10 say they have a negative view.
And these numbers hold up in early states.
A Quinnipiac poll in Iowa last week found that 60 percent of Republicans there had a favorable view of Trump.
Two-thirds of GOP voters would be happy with Trump as the nominee.
In a CNN/ORC poll last week, 67 percent of Republicans said they would be either "enthusiastic" or "satisfied" if Trump were the nominee.
Only two in 10 say they would be "upset" if he were the nominee.
Only Ben Carson generates roughly the same level of enthusiasm as Trump (43 percent say they would be "enthusiastic" vs. 40 percent who say the same of Trump).
The next closest in enthusiasm?
Marco Rubio with only 21 percent.
On the flip side, 47 percent of Republican voters say they would be "dissatisfied" or "upset" if establishment favorite Jeb Bush becomes the nominee.
A majority of Republicans don't see Trump's temperament as a problem.
While Donald Trump has been widely criticized for his bombast and insults, 52 percent of leaned Republican voters nationwide think that the real estate mogul has the right temperament to be president, according to Monday's ABC News/Washington Post poll.
The same number holds in the first-in-the-nation caucus state of Iowa, where the same 52 percent of Republicans think he has the personality to be commander in chief, according to Quinnipiac last week.
Still, 44 percent think he doesn't have the personality to serve effectively, and almost six in 10 independents say his temperament does not belong in the White House, according to ABC/Post.
Republican voters are getting used to the idea.
When they put on their pundit hats, Republican voters think Trump is for real.
When asked who is most likely to win the GOP nomination, four in 10 said Trump was the best bet, according to a CNN/ORC poll out last week.
That's a change from when four in 10 placed their money on Jeb Bush in late July.
Full disclosure: GOP voters haven't had the clearest crystal ball in the past.
At this time last cycle, four in 10 Republicans picked Rick Perry to win the nomination, vs. only 28 percent for eventual nominee Mitt Romney.
Still, it shows that a plurality of GOP voters see Trump's campaign as plausible.
Even if Republicans rallied around another candidate, Trump still beats almost everyone.
Some pundits point out that the splintered field is likely contributing to Trump's lead, while anti-Trump support is be spread diffusely among more than a dozen other candidates.
But a Monmouth University poll in early September shows that, in a hypothetical head-to-head matchup between Trump and most other Republican candidates, Trump almost always garners majority support.
He leads Carly Fiorina by 13 points, Marco Rubio by 14 points, Walker by 15 points, Jeb Bush by 19 points, and, finally, Rand Paul, John Kasich and Chris Christie by 33 points each.
He's in a dead heat with Ted Cruz.
The only candidate who beats him?
Ben Carson would lead the businessman by a wide 19 points in a hypothetical head-to-head.
A bare majority of Donald Trump's supporters say they've made up their minds.
A new CBS/NYT poll out on Tuesday shows that just more than half of voters who support Trump say they have locked in their votes.
Obviously, a lot can happen to change that, and no one can really say they would never change their mind.
46 percent said they are leaving the door open to switching candidates.
Still, Trump's strongest competition at the moment is from fellow outsider neurosurgeon Ben Carson, but voters who say they have made up their minds are twice as likely to go for Trump.
Six in 10 Republicans say they agree with Trump on immigration.
Even since Donald Trump called immigrants from Mexico "rapists" in his campaign announcement speech two months ago, immigration has been front and center in the 2016 conversation.
Some are worried that Trump's bombast will drive crucial Hispanic voters away from the Republican Party and damage rebranding efforts.
But according to Monday's new ABC/Post poll, six in 10 Republicans say they agree with Trump on immigration issues.
So as long as immigration remains in the spotlight, it seems Donald Trump will remain too.
Frustration with government is climbing to new highs.
Donald Trump and Ben Carson now account for roughly half of the support from Republican voters, largely due to their outsider status.
Six in 10 Republicans in Monday's new ABC/Post poll say they want a political outsider over someone with government experience.
And they are angry at Washington, too.
A Des Moines Register/Bloomberg poll in Iowa from two weeks ago shows that three in four Iowa Republicans are frustrated with Republicans in Congress, with 54 percent "unsatisfied" and 21 percent "mad as hell."
Jeremy Corbyn to make debut at Prime Minister's Questions
Since his election, Mr Corbyn's debut at PMQs has been keenly awaited
New Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is to make his debut at Prime Minister's Questions later, taking on David Cameron for the first time.
Mr Corbyn will rise to ask the first of his six allotted questions shortly after midday, with his performance likely to be closely scrutinised by the media and Labour MPs.
He has called for "less theatre and more facts" at the weekly showpiece.
He has also said he could skip some sessions, leaving them to colleagues.
The encounter will be the first parliamentary test of Mr Corbyn's leadership, coming after his appointment of a shadow cabinet and his speech to the TUC annual congress on Tuesday.
Meanwhile, the Labour leader's decision to stand in silence during the singing of the national anthem at a service on Tuesday to mark the 75th anniversary of the Battle of Britain has attracted criticism from a number of Tory MPs and is the focus of several front page stories in the newspapers.
Mr Corbyn's decision not to sing the national anthem has attracted attention
A spokesman for Mr Corbyn said he had "stood in respectful silence" and did recognise the "heroism of the Royal Air Force in the Battle of Britain."
But a member of Mr Corbyn's shadow cabinet, Owen Smith, told BBC Two's Newsnight programme he would have advised the Labour leader to sing the national anthem "irrespective" of his belief that the monarchy should be abolished.
Nearly a dozen shadow ministers have refused to serve in Mr Corbyn's top team, citing differences over the economy, defence and foreign affairs, while less than a sixth of the parliamentary party originally backed him as leader.
BBC political correspondent Robin Brant says policy differences are also "stacking up" within Labour following Mr Corbyn's appointment over its position on the European Union and the government's cap on benefits.
Mr Corbyn told the TUC conference Labour was putting forward amendments to remove the whole idea of a cap altogether.
Hours later Mr Smith, the shadow work and pensions secretary, said the party was "very clear" that it was only opposing government plans to reduce the level of cap from £26,000 to £23,000.
Mr Corbyn will be the fifth Labour leader that David Cameron has faced across the despatch box over the past decade since he became Tory leader.
The Labour leader, who has promised a different approach to politics, says he has "crowd sourced" ideas for questions to ask Mr Cameron and has been given more than 30,000 suggestions.
The Islington North MP has said PMQs is too confrontational and that he will refrain from both "repartee" and trading barbs, instead vowing to focus on serious issues such as poverty, inequality and the challenges facing young people.
Mr Corbyn has said that Angela Eagle, the shadow business secretary, will deputise for him at PMQs when he does not attend - for instance when Mr Cameron is travelling abroad.
He has also floated the idea of allowing other colleagues to take the floor on occasion, saying he had approached the Commons Speaker John Bercow to discuss the issue.
When he became leader in 2005, Mr Cameron said he wanted to move away from the "Punch and Judy" style of politics often associated with PMQs but admitted some years later that he had failed.
Since it was first televised in 1990, PMQs has been seen as a key barometer of a leader's judgement, their command of the Commons and their standing among their fellow MPs although critics have argued it has become a caricature and is in need of far-reaching reforms.
'Shot in Joburg': Homeless youth trained as photographers
Downtown Johannesburg is a tough place to be homeless.
But one group of former street children have found a way to learn a skill and make a living.
"I was shot in Joburg" is a non-profit studio that teaches homeless youngsters how to take photographs of their neighbourhood and make a profit from it.
BBC News went to meet one of the project's first graduates.
How to share your stories, pictures and videos with BBC News
Every day BBC News - on TV, on radio and online - brings you the latest stories from across the globe... but what we want to hear are the issues that matter to you.
The part you play in making the news is very important.
Whether it is breaking news or a featured item, your contribution can make a difference.
Have you seen or been involved in a news event?
Is something significant, bizarre or unusual happening where you live?
Have you got a story to tell or is there something you think we should follow up?
Are there topics you want to get the world talking about?
What do you want to comment on?
Or do you want to find out what others are talking about?
Terms and conditions for sending contributions to the BBC.
Here are the different ways to send in your contributions:
Contact us on Twitter
We may use your tweets displaying your Twitter username on BBC output.
Message us on WhatsApp
Send us a picture, video or message to our WhatsApp number +44 7525 900971
In some cases your text, as well as your images, may be used on BBC output.
We will publish your name as you provide it (unless you ask us not to) but we will never publish your mobile phone number.
You can send us your pictures and videos or an SMS to 61124.
Or if you are outside the UK, send them to the international number +44 7624 800 100.
You can download the BBC News app on iOS or Android devices and send us images or contributions using the buttons in the app.
Email your stories and comments to haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk
We aim to read all of your emails but due to the numbers we receive each day it is not always possible to reply to everyone individually.
Email your pictures, video or audio to us at yourpics@bbc.co.uk
If we use your material on BBC programmes or online we will publish your name as you provide it (unless you ask us not to) but we will never publish your email address.
You can also upload your video or pictures.
We will publish your name as you provide it, unless you ask us not to.
Pound rises as UK wage growth accelerates
The pound jumped following data showing a pick-up in UK wage growth, while the FTSE 100 was led higher by bid target SABMiller.
Between May and July, UK earnings excluding bonuses grew 2.9% compared with the same period last year.
The rate was the fastest since 2009, and was seen as bringing forward estimates of when rates might rise.
Sterling rose more than 1% against the dollar to $1.5505 and was up 0.84% against the euro at €1.3730.
The FTSE 100 index closed up 1.49% to 6,229.21.
SABMiller was the stand-out stock on the market, jumping 20% after it received a bid approach from rival AB InBev.
A deal would combine the world's two largest brewers, bringing together brands such as Budweiser, Stella Artois, Peroni and Grolsch.
Burberry shares were 0.9% higher following encouraging news from rival luxury goods group Richemont.
Richemont's latest sales figures beat expectations and also showed that sales in China - a key market for Burberry - had begun to grow again.
Shares in Glencore rose 5% after the mining giant said it had raised $2.5bn through a share placement as part of its debt-cutting strategy.
Shares in packaging and paper group Mondi were the biggest fallers on the index, down 4.3%, after Goldman Sachs cut its rating on the firm to "sell."
JD Sports rose 3.1% after the sportswear firm reported an 83% jump in half-year pre-tax profits to £46.6m.
JD Sports boss says higher wages could hurt expansion
JD Sports Executive Chairman Peter Cowgill says a higher minimum wage for UK workers could mean "more spending power in the pockets of potential consumers."
But that spending power is unlikely to outweigh the higher labour costs at his firm, he says.
The costs could hit JD Sports' expansion plans, he added, which could mean fewer extra jobs.
Metcash launches grassroots campaign to fight Aldi incursion
Metcash is trying to protect its IGA stores from an Aldi onslaught in South Australia and Western Australia.
Grocery wholesaler Metcash has kicked off a grassroots campaign to defend the market share of IGA retailers in South Australia and Western Australia ahead of a $700 million Aldi invasion.
As Aldi prepares to open two distribution centres and the first of as many as 120 stores in South Australia and Western Australia early next year, Metcash and IGA supermarkets are strengthening relationships with local food suppliers and building the IGA brand through mainstream and social media marketing and events such as the Adelaide show.
IGA retailers and suppliers are jumping on board, with brands such as Dunsborough-based ice cream maker Simmo's offering taste testing at IGA stores and store owners selling discounted South Australian football league tickets to loyal customers.
Metcash is expected to reveal more details of its defence strategy on September 29, when the food, liquor and hardware wholesaler hosts its annual investor strategy day.
There is much at stake, as South Australia and Western Australia account for almost 30 per cent of Metcash's IGA store footprint and generate higher profit margins than Metcash's IGA network in the eastern states.
South Australian and Western Australian shoppers are notoriously parochial and IGA retailers enjoy a much stronger market share than they do in NSW, Victoria and Queensland - more than 30 per cent in SA and 24 per cent in WA compared with around 14 per cent in the Eastern states.
However, analysts such as Morgan Stanley believe Aldi will snare around 5 per cent of the grocery market in these two states within 12 months of opening its first stores, taking sales from all existing players but mainly from independent retailers.
In a report this week, Morgan Stanley analyst Tom Kierath estimated that IGA retailers could lose $360 million a year in sales and Metcash $250 million by the end of 2016.
This forecast is based on the assumption that Aldi opens 25 stores in SA and 30 in WA next year, generating sales of $500 million and $600 million in each market.
The loss of food and grocery sales and volumes on Metcash's high fixed-cost base could cost Metcash around $13 million in earnings before interest and tax, Mr Kierath said.
At the same time, Metcash is losing market share in the eastern states, mainly to Aldi and Coles, even though a recent Roy Morgan survey found IGA shoppers were most loyal.
Morgan Stanley believes Metcash's food and grocery sales will fall 3.8 per cent in 2016, 4.1 per cent in 2017 and 2.1 per cent in 2018, reducing its market share from 14 per cent in 2015 to 10.3 per cent by 2020.
Last week, leading fund manager Hamish Douglass, the founder of Magellan Financial Group, told a business lunch in Melbourne that Metcash could "highly, probably disappear within a decade.
Metcash has declined to respond publicly to Mr Douglass' comments.
But it is understood that a Metcash board member contacted Mr Douglass last week.
IGA's market share has fallen from 18 per cent to 14 per cent since 2010 and earnings from Metcash's food and grocery business, which supplies about 1200 IGA retailers, have fallen 43 per cent since 2012, reflecting operating deleverage as sales and margins come under pressure.
However, the wholesaler is fighting back, investing more than $150 million a year matching shelf prices at Coles and Woolworths on hundreds of products each week, helping IGA retailers refurbish stores by adding faster-growing fresh food, and rolling out a better range of private label groceries.
Metcash chief executive Ian Morrice says the price matching and store refurbishment programs are gaining traction and is hoping the wholesaler will return to underlying profit growth in 2017, for the first time in four years.
Thanasi Kokkinakis backed by Tennis Australia president Steve Healy
Thanasi Kokkinakis deserves kudos rather than criticism for his behaviour.
Thanasi Kokkinakis has been the collateral damage in the recent storm around his friend Nick Kyrgios and deserves kudos rather than criticism for his own behaviour, according to Tennis Australia president Steve Healy.
Kokkinakis, the younger of the talented duo regularly referred to as the "Special Ks," was dragged into an unwelcome spotlight by the infamous Kyrgios sledge of Stan Wawrinka at the Montreal Masters.
In a fiery qualifying match in Cincinnati soon after, Kokkinakis and his opponent Ryan Harrison twice had to be separated by the chair umpire, with Harrison declaring: "Wawrinka should've decked Kyrgios, and I should deck that kid."
While he was last seen smashing a racquet after cramp foiled a potential US Open upset of Richard Gasquet, Kokkinakis has been defended staunchly by Healy.
The teenager is currently in Glasgow, competing with Sam Groth for the second singles berth behind Bernard Tomic in the Davis Cup semi-final against Britain.
"One thing I do feel quite keenly about is I think Thanasi's been dragged into the fray a little bit," Healy said.
He did break a racquet when he lost when he cramped in the US, but he's not the first player to break a racquet out of frustration with himself, and I know Thanasi well enough to know he wouldn't be proud of that.
But, really, he's handled himself extremely well, in pretty provocative circumstances in the US with Harrison and so on, and I think he deserves a lot of credit.
He's a great team around him, he's got a great family around him and I just think he's been a little hard done by.
He's a very mature 19-year-old, he works very hard, and he fits in with the team and so on, he hasn't ever had an issue with the other players, he's well respected in the locker room, he trains hard, he's in great shape, he's a very stable and mature young guy and I just think he deserves to be judged on his own merits.
Healy also backed the decision to overlook Kyrgios for the important tie, starting on Friday, describing the "mutual decision" as the right thing for all, but backing the Canberran to return as a long-term fixture in the team.
"First of all we want the team to be completely focused on the tie and not all the controversy around [Kyrgios]," Healy said.
And I think Nick, he's risen very quickly, as people like Federer and Murray have pointed out, he's growing up in the public eye and he's made some terrible errors and deserves all the criticism he gets, but we're trying to support him, we're trying to help him understand the consequences of his actions, and some time out of the limelight where he can just reflect on that I think is appropriate and it's best for the team and it's best for him.
Europe migrant crisis: Hungary declares emergency, seals border, detains migrants
Declaring a state of emergency, Hungary sealed off its southern border with Serbia on Tuesday and detained those trying to enter illegally, aiming to shut down the flow of migrants pouring in.
Chaos ensued at the border, as hundreds of migrants piled up in a no man's land, and Serbian officials reacted with outrage.
Stuck for an unknown amount of time on a strip of road between the two countries' checkpoints, those fleeing violence in their homelands pitched tents and settled in.
But frustrations were on the rise.
As a police helicopter hovered above, migrants chanted "Open the border!" and shouted insults at Hungarian riot police.
Some refused food and water in protest.
Serbia's foreign minister declared it was "unacceptable" that migrants were being sent back from Hungary while more and more were arriving from Macedonia and Greece.
(Serbia) wants to be part of the solution, not collateral damage.
There will have to be talks in the coming days with Brussels and other countries," Ivica Dacic said in Prague.
The turmoil at the Hungarian-Serbian border came a day after the 28-nation bloc failed to come up with a united immigration policy at a contentious meeting in Brussels.
The ministers did agree to share responsibility for 40,000 people seeking refuge in overwhelmed Italy and Greece and spoke hopefully of reaching an eventual deal - next month or by the end of the year - on which EU nations would take 120,000 more refugees, including some from Hungary.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Austria called Tuesday for a special European Union summit next week to discuss the continent's immigration crisis.
Hungary, however, was not pinning its hopes on any action soon from Brussels or its neighbors.
Tuesday's state of emergency in two southern regions gave authorities greater powers to deal with the crisis, allowing them to shut down roads and speed up asylum court cases.
Meanwhile, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said his country is also planning to build a razor-wire fence along part of its border with Romania to stop the flow of migrants through the country, now that it has finished a fence on the Serbian border.
CBS News correspondent Charlie D'Agata reported that even prison inmates were enlisted in the race to finish the razor wire fence between Hungary and Serbia.
In the last few months, Hungary has become a major bottleneck and entry point into the European Union for migrants, many of them war refugees from Syria and elsewhere in the Middle East.
Prime Minister Viktor Orban, however, has insisted that most arriving are economic migrants seeking a better life, not war refugees entitled to protection - a view sharply at odds with other EU nations, including Germany.
The new laws that took effect at midnight in Hungary now make it a crime to cross or damage a 4-meter (13-foot) razor-wire fence the government has built along the southern border with Serbia and also includes longer prison terms for convicted human traffickers.
"Due to the situation caused by mass migration, the Hungarian government declares a state of crisis," government spokesman Zoltan Kovacs told reporters in the southern city of Szeged.
We are very clear on this: Illegal border crossing is a crime.
Technically, parliament must still approve the deployment of the military, expected next week, but Associated Press reporters at the border have seen heavily armed military personnel with vehicles and dogs for days.
Gyorgy Bakondi, homeland security adviser to Orban, said authorities caught 45 people trying to cross at the border and 15 deeper in the country.
They got across by damaging the fence, are now in police custody and are being charged with committing offenses under the new laws.
Authorities are quickly repairing the fence.
Hungarian officials also closed two of seven border crossings with Serbia on Tuesday morning after deploying a train car covered with razor wire to close one of them.
Chaos enveloped the main border crossing near Roszke, Hungary, as the Hungarians opened a tiny office in a metal container to process people and crowds pressed to squeeze inside.
About 20 managed to get in, but thousands remained outside.
Another group of migrants blocked the main highway connecting Serbia and Hungary, saying they were refusing food and water until they are allowed to cross into Hungary.
Election 2016: Hillary Clinton's lead over Bernie Sanders cut by half in national poll
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton continues to hold a double-digit lead in the Democratic race for the nomination nationally, but Sen. Bernie Sanders is gaining on her.
Clinton now has the backing of 47 percent of Democratic primary voters (down from 58 percent), while Sanders comes in second, with 27 percent (up from 17 percent).
Vice President Joe Biden, who has yet to announce whether he is running for president, receives support from 15 percent of Democratic primary voters.
More than five months before the start of the primary contests, most Democratic voters say it is too early to say that their minds are made up about which candidate they will support.
But Clinton's backers are more firm in their choice than those backing other candidates.
Since last month's CBS News Poll, Clinton has lost ground among a number of demographic groups, while Sanders has made some gains.
Clinton maintains a large lead among women and moderates, but those leads have narrowed.
Her support among men has dropped considerably and Sanders only trails her by 5 points.
Clinton's advantage with Democratic voters under age 50 has evaporated, and she and Sanders are now even.
However, Clinton still has a large lead with older voters.
Last month, Clinton was ahead of Sanders by double-digits among liberals, but Sanders now has a 5-point edge with this group.
About half of Democratic primary voters nationwide say they would enthusiastically support Clinton if she became the party's nominee.
A quarter would support her with some reservations and another 15 percent would only back her because she is the nominee.
Six percent would not support her.
Perhaps not surprisingly, Clinton's current supporters are especially likely to be enthusiastic about her.
Views are more mixed among those not currently backing Clinton - only about a quarter would enthusiastically support her.
While 48 percent of Democratic primary voters say they would enthusiastically back Clinton, fewer Republican voters say that about their frontrunner, Donald Trump (35 percent).
When Clinton's supporters are asked in an open-ended question why they want her to be the nominee, the top answer is that she has the right experience (16 percent), followed by it's time for a woman president (13 percent), and that she is the best candidate for the job (10 percent).
Also mentioned by Clinton supporters is her association with Bill Clinton (9 percent).
Agreement on the issues, and electability are also cited.
As the vice president weighs a potential run for president, 57 percent of Democratic primary voters would like to see him jump in the race - although a third don't think he should.
When Democratic primary voters are asked who would be their second choice for the party's nomination, Biden is the top pick.
Among Clinton supporters, more than half say Biden would be their second choice, far ahead of Sanders.
If Biden chooses not to run for the Democratic nomination, Hillary Clinton's lead over Sanders widens, from 20 points with Biden in the race to 30 points without him in the running.
Fifty-five percent of Democratic voters see Clinton as the candidate with the best chance of winning the general election; however that figure is down from 78 percent last month.
Biden is a distant second on this measure, but the percentage that sees him as the most electable has risen.
Still, when asked which is more important in a nominee, Democratic voters pick issues over electability.
Similar to last month, no single Democratic candidate or potential candidate stands out as unacceptable as the nominee to these primary voters.
The Democratic candidates, or potential candidates, perform well on some key characteristics among their party's primary voters.
Majorities see Clinton, Sanders and Biden as honest and trustworthy and as having strong leadership qualities.
Biden does the best of the three on honesty, while Clinton's strength is leadership.
Thirty percent of Democratic primary voters don't think Clinton is honest and trustworthy, twice as many as say that about Sanders (15 percent), but 27 percent don't have an opinion of him on this.
Democratic primary voters also generally see Clinton, Sanders and Biden as in line with their views ideologically.
On all of these measures, about a quarter of Democratic voters do not have an opinion of Sanders.
As questions continue about Hillary Clinton's use of a personal email address and server while Secretary of State, most Democratic primary voters are satisfied with her explanation of the matter and say it hasn't impacted their overall views of her.
But it's a different story among the American public overall.
Half of Americans are now dissatisfied with her explanation, while just about a third are satisfied.
The public's views on this were split back in March, shortly after the issue came to light.
Most Americans say the email controversy has had no effect on their overall opinions of Clinton, although 36 percent say their opinion of her has grown worse.
It is mainly Republicans, more than six in 10, who say their views of Clinton have become worse.
Even though Clinton is viewed as honest and trustworthy by her party's voters, this continues to be a problem for her among registered voters overall: only 32 percent see her as honest and trustworthy, down eight points from last month, and 15 points since May.
Sixty-two percent of registered voters don't think of her as honest and trustworthy.
At the same time, 55 percent of registered voters nationwide don't see Trump as honest and trustworthy either.
Both Clinton and Trump, however, get good marks on leadership.
Of the six candidates tested, Biden, Carson and Bush do the best on honesty.
More see Sanders as honest than not, but like Carson, many don't have an opinion of him.
The margin of error for the sample of 351 Democratic primary voters is 6 percentage points.
Ben Carson draws close behind Donald Trump in national poll
Ben Carson is running close behind Donald Trump in the newest CBS News/New York Times poll
The two candidates account for half the support of voters in the new poll, leaving others scrounging for a foothold
Republican voters nationwide continue to back Trump in large numbers, climbing from 23% support in the last CBS poll, conducted before the Fox News debate last month, to 27% in the poll out Tuesday.
But Carson rocketed in that same period from 6% to 23%.
The survey also found Carson doing well across demographic groups, edging out Trump among college-educated Republican voters.
The rest of the field, with the exception of Carly Fiorina and Ohio Gov. John Kasich, has slipped behind with Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker falling farthest from 10% support last month to 2% now.
Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee and Florida Sen. Marco Rubio all tied for third place with 6%.
The margin of error for the 376-person sample of Republican voters in this newest poll is plus-or-minus 6%, and was conducted Sept.
The latest CNN/ORC survey, released last week, showed Carson rising in the polls -- landing at 19% support among Republicans, behind Trump's 32% support.
The latest poll from ABC News/Washington Post also showed Trump significantly ahead of Carson.
Facing a rising Carson last week, Trump took some potshots at the retired neurosurgeon, even as Carson apologized for questioning Trump's faith.
"We need energy," Trump said last Saturday during a campaign stop in Iowa.
Five fraternity members charged in death of Baruch College freshman
Nearly two years after a college student died during a fraternity hazing ritual in Pennsylvania's Pocono Mountains, murder charges have been filed against five people.
Members of New York City's Baruch College Pi Delta Psi fraternity brutally assaulted Chun "Michael" Deng during an initiation rite in September 2013 and delayed taking him to the hospital, contributing to his death, police said.
Officials said he was blindfolded, saddled with a 30-pound backpack full of sand, and repeatedly tackled while he tried to walk toward a target across a frozen field.
Mr. Deng eventually complained that his head hurt then fell unconscious.
Pi Delta Psi fraternity members did not call 911 after Deng passed out, and allegedly waited an hour before bringing him to a hospital, police say.
They did, however, find time to change Deng's clothes, Google his symptoms, and contact Andy Meng, the fraternity's national president to seek advice, Police Chief Chris Wagner said at a news conference.
"At this point, members began to hide paraphernalia and basically put the fraternity's well-being over that of Michael Deng's," Chief Wagner said.
He could not be revived and he died the next morning.
According to an autopsy report, Deng was subjected to repeated blunt force trauma to his head, torso, and thighs.
"Too many families have been devastated as a result of fraternity hazing, with at least one student dying every year from hazing since 1970," Douglas Fierberg, an attorney representing Deng's family, said in a statement.
Fraternities and their members must be held accountable, and this step by authorities is an important one.
A Monroe County grand jury recommended third-degree murder charges for the first five members.
Thirty-two other fraternity members, including Mr. Meng, will also be charged with assault hazing and criminal conspiracy.
"We want to hold not only the individuals involved, but if there's an organization that sanctioned it, whether officially or unofficially, we're going to hold them accountable as well," Wagner said at a news conference Tuesday.
Baruch College banned the fraternity and the national fraternity revoked its affiliation with the local chapter.
Here's what will happen when the Fed raises interest rates
A rate hike will come and the bull market will stumble, bond yields will climb and the economy will slip into a recession.
This we know.
What we don't know is how long all of that will take and how long it will last.
For the economy specifically, history offers little guide about timing.
A recession has come as quickly as 11 months after the first rate hike and as long as 86 months.
The Federal Reserve's aggressiveness in raising rates is often, though not always, a determinant in how the economy and financial assets respond.
That's why officials at the U.S. central bank have stressed so vigorously that investors should not be focused on when it starts raising rates but rather the trajectory of how long it will take to normalize.
There are, indeed, multiple variables at play.
In the end, however, market participants may find that all the rate-hike fuss may have been overdone.
"The first hike from the Fed since the global financial crisis will inevitably be interpreted by some as signaling the end of the era of 'cheap money,' " Julian Jessop, chief global economist at Capital Economics, said in a note to clients.
In contrast, we do not expect the gradual return of U.S. interest rates to more normal but still low levels to be the seismic shock that many seem to fear.
That's not to say there won't be effects, however.
Here's a look at how some areas of the economy could react, based on historical trends:
As the market has seen over the past month or so, anticipation of rate hikes can make things volatile for a while.
Once the hike hits, though, the impact is not as dramatic.
"It does seem there is a trend for equity returns to stall 12-24 months after the first hike, which again perhaps reflects the lag in monetary policy," Deutsche Bank analysts said in a recent study of what happens after the Fed hikes.
More specifically, the market over the past 35 years or so is most often up sharply - about 14 percent - heading into the rate hike, fairly flat in the 250 days after (average gain of 2.6 percent) then back to normal once 500 days have passed, with average return in the past six cycles of 14.4 percent, according to a recent analysis Bob Doll, chief equity strategist at Nuveen Asset Management, posted on Barron's.
Deutsche said the impact on stocks tends to get more pronounced later in the rate-hiking cycle and returns begin to diminish.
Recessions are a fact of economic life, but rate hikes often help them along.
In the current case, the Fed is facing some conditions that did not exist before and could hasten a recession.
Most notably, gross domestic product will be near its lowest point ever for a Fed rate hike.
According to Deutsche Bank, in the 118 rate hikes since 1950, only twice has nominal year over year GDP been below 4.5 percent.
Even though the second quarter of 2015 was at 3.6 percent, few expect that to last, with the third quarter tracking at just 1.5 percent, according to the Atlanta Fed.
Hiking rates into such a fragile economic backdrop could be risky and set up the question of "whether this time is different," Deutsche said.
Market participants have been bracing for a Fed hike all year, with all eyes turned toward this week's Federal Open Market Committee meeting, which ends Thursday.
While many strategists and economists believe the FOMC could approve a hike at this meeting, futures trading indicates just a 25 percent probability.
"In our study since 1950, all hiking cycles to date have been in a super cycle of increasing leverage with GDP eclipsing prerecession peaks very quickly post the recovery commencing," the report said.
By contrast this has been a uniquely slow recovery from what was the worst recession in the sample period.
The current cycle is by far the longest the Fed has waited since the end of the last recession; the record had been 35 months, and this is 74 months and counting.
Fixed income also has been volatile as the market anticipates a rate hike, and the pattern is somewhat similar to what equities experience.
The principal difference is that the impact happens faster in bonds than stocks when the Fed changes course in policy.
For bonds, it does seem yields change direction immediately as the first hike/cut in the cycle arrives.
At the end of the hiking cycle bond yields fall immediately," Deutsche said.
Charles Schwab strategists believe the hike in rates will cause yields between longer- and shorter-dated bonds to move closer together, flattening the curve.
High-yield bonds often perform better in such a climate, though "we are still cautious about stretching for yield," Kathy Jones, fixed income analyst at Schwab, said in an analysis.
Interestingly, Jones thinks markets already have adapted to Fed policy expectations.
"In addition to the strength in the dollar and the drop in inflation expectations, there are several signs that the market has adjusted to the prospect of tighter monetary policy," she wrote.
Short-term interest rates are up, the yield curve is flatter, credit spreads have widened and volatility has increased - all characteristics of the market when the Fed tightens policy.
Broadly speaking, companies that do the majority of their business in the U.S. will win as interest rates rise and local products become more attractive.
Multinationals with lots of debt will fare worse, as a rising dollar makes their products more expensive in the global market space and their debt more expensive the finance.
"History shows that 'quality' stocks tend to outperform during the three months following an initial rate hike," Goldman Sachs analysts said in a report for clients.
Firms with strong balance sheets outpaced weak balance sheet companies following each of the 1994, 1999, and 2004 rate hikes, by an average of 5 percentage points.
Companies with high returns on capital as well as low volatility stocks also outperformed their lower quality counterparts, by an average of 4 (percentage points) and 3 (percentage points), respectively.
Debt will become a big issue.
Companies with a high percentage of floating rate debt stand to lose the most, Goldman said.
Outside pure stock plays, consumers stand to benefit as well through the rising dollar.
Savers could see gains as well through higher yields at the, though experts differ on how quickly that will take hold.
BBC Radio 3 is a copy of Classic FM says MP Andrew Bingham
Conservative MP Andrew Bingham criticised station for 'dumbing down'
Argues it's becoming increasingly indistinguishable from commercial rival
Also took aim at the BBC Music Awards, saying they just rip off the Brits
Colleague Damien Collins MP attacked The Voice, saying that too wasn't original
BBC Radio 3 is "turning into" Classic FM, a leading MP has claimed, piling fresh pressure on the broadcaster to prove that it does something that commercial broadcasters do not.
Conservative MP Andrew Bingham also told BBC bosses that the public service radio station appeared to be "dumbing down" and is becoming increasingly indistinguishable from its commercial rival.
"Radio 3 seems to be - I don't like to use the word "dumbing down" - but it seems to be turning into Classic FM," he said.
He also took aim at the BBC Music Awards, launched last December.
The BBC Music Awards which started last year seem to be the Brits by another name.
So, if you're trying to do something different - those are two examples from the top of my head where you're actually just mimicking what is already on the market," Mr Bingham said.
BBC director general denied the charges, arguing that BBC Radio 3 is far ahead of its commercial rival when it comes to live music and educating the public.
What I learn from Radio 3, I am not going to learn about classical music from anywhere else.
And it's commitment to live music and music making is actually second to none.
"And also, Radio 3's commitment to finding new music and commissioning new works I think is also really important," he said.
Earlier this year, BBC Radio 3 controller Alan Davey argued that it has to work harder to engage audiences than it did in the past, because Britons are less educated about classical music.
However, Radio 3 was not the only element of the BBC's output which came under fire for treading on the toes of commercial rivals, during the Culture, Media and Sport select committee hearing.
Tory MP Damien Collins attacked The Voice - the musical talent show which the BBC bought in from Dutch producer Talpa Media at an estimated cost of £22million.
Can you see why that programme is often discussed because it is not original and it is not particularly distinctive?
Lord Hall insisted that the BBC1 show - which stars Paloma Faith and Boy George as judges - was produced "in a particularly BBC way."
He added that he wants the Corporation to "find a hit from our own in-house stable" next time it launches an entertainment series.
However, he refused to rule out ordering more series of The Voice in the future, or spending licence fee payers' money on other entertainment formats.
Internet sales increased at slowest ever rate in August and Black Friday may be to blame
First three months of 2015 saw seven per cent increase in online sales
Last month saw lowest growth rise since records began in 2000
Online sales bolstered three years ago by the use of mobile for shopping
Experts believe November's Black Friday could be holding back spending
For over a decade virtual shopping has been booming and turning many of Britain's high streets into ghost towns.
But experts say there are now signs that online sales are leveling off, after new figures showed just a seven per cent increase in the first three months of 2015.
Total spending for August presented the lowest increase in growth since records began in 2000, with just a five per cent rise on last year.
Experts say there are signs that online sales are leveling off, after new figures showed just a seven per cent increase in the first three months of 2015
'If you look at growth levels for previous years and go back to 2000, it was always going to rationalise over time,' Andy Mulcahy, editor of IMRG sales index, told the Guardian.
He explained that online sales were bolstered three years ago when shoppers started using their mobile phones to make purchases.
It meant more people were able to shop online and that people could do it in different contexts, such as on the sofa.
But now that is plateauing a bit, you might see (growth) fall away.
The Black Friday phenomenon, which has been imported from America, is being cited as one of the reasons behind the slowing sales.
Experts believe shoppers could be holding off making purchases ahead of the event, which takes place on the last Friday in November .
Last year five times the average number of shoppers flocked to their computers to snap up deals crashing a number of retailers websites.
Experts believe Black Friday, which saw shoppers fight over bargains, could be holding shoppers off from making purchases
Research published by the British Retail Consortium found just over £1 in every £5 was being spent online.
For some products, such as TVs and washing machines, more than one third of purchases are now done through web stores.
At the same time, more than a quarter of people are buying clothes and shoes online, rather than using high street fashion chains.
Muslims bury those killed in Mecca crane crash as Bin Laden family sanctioned
Bodies of 29 of the dead carried through the streets by Muslims as the first funerals take place in Mecca
Come as Saudi Arabia has partly blamed the collapse on construction giant Saudi Binladin Group
The Health Ministry said a total of 394 people were also injured after the crane crashed down
Carried aloft through the streets, hundreds of Muslims gathered to bury 29 of the victims killed when a crane collapsed at Mecca's Grand mosque.
Dressed largely in white, mourners packed the route to pay their respects as the first of the dead made their final journey to Al-Moaissem cemetery.
The sad possession passed by the holy site, where just days earlier a construction crane crashed through the ceiling of the mosque and toppled onto worshipers.
The bodies were released for funeral as the Saudi King sanctioned the Bin Laden family construction group over the disaster, which also left 394 injured.
The bodies of 29 of the worshipers killed when a crane crashed collapsed at Mecca's Grand Central Mosque were carried through the streets
Among the dead was father-of-four Qasim Akram, from Bolton, Greater Manchester, who was on his first pilgrimage when the crane crashed down.
Mr Akram had been in the Grand Mosque with his parents ahead of the start of the annual hajj pilgrimage.
Saudi officials have already vowed that the hajj to Mecca will go ahead with thousands continuing to descend on the city.
Today, King Salman said the Binladin Group should not have left the crane's arm up when it was not in use.
An Arabic version of the decree, carried by the state-run Saudi Press Agency, said the Binladin Group was partly to blame for the collapse.
The news agency's English service did not report that detail, but did say leaders of the company have been banned from travelling abroad.
Earlier this week Salman vowed to reveal what caused the crane to topple into a courtyard of the Grand Mosque, where hundreds of thousands of Muslims have converged ahead of the hajj pilgrimage later this month.
Binladin Group has not released any statements about the crane collapse and its representatives have not been made available for comment.
The royal decree also blamed the group for not using up-to-date safety measures and failing to coordinate with meteorological officials.
Dozens of cranes surround Mecca's Grand Mosque, part of the massive construction effort headed by the Binladin Group.
The Binladin family has been close to Saudi Arabia's ruling family for decades and runs major building projects.
Al Qaida's late leader Osama bin Laden was a renegade son disowned by the family in the 1990s.
The crash came amid high winds and rain just days before millions arrive in the kingdom for the pilgrimage, which is required at least once in the life of every able-bodied Muslim.
Officials said 158 people remain in hospital.
Officials ordered one million riyals (£174,000) be paid to the relatives of those killed, and the same amount to those permanently injured.
Others injured will receive half that amount.
B&Q boss says Eastern European tradesmen working cheap is behind trend
Britons are increasingly employing handymen says Veronique Laury
Number of skilled tradesmen from Eastern Europe behind rise
Resulting in 200 more Screwfix stores, aimed at tradesmen, opening
At same time Kingfisher is closing 60 B&Q outlets across the country
By Rupert Steiner, Chief City Correspondent for the Daily Mail
Britons are said to be putting down their hammers and paintbrushes in favour of employing skilled Eastern European tradesmen to carry out work in their home
If you are handy with a hammer or a whizz at painting walls, it seems you are in the minority these days.
Because Britons are increasingly employing handymen to carry out DIY jobs in their homes, according to the boss of the company behind B&Q.
Veronique Laury, new chief executive of Kingfisher, which owns the home improvement chain, said a big rise in the number of skilled tradesmen from Eastern Europe offering services at rock-bottom prices is behind the trend.
As a result, Kingfisher is planning to open 200 more Screwfix stores, which are aimed at tradesmen, while closing 60 B&Q outlets.
Mrs Laury said she wants more women to be employed in B&Q shops because eight out of ten purchasing decisions in store are made by the fairer sex.
Currently the majority of staff are men.
She said there was a need to address growing demographic trends which have seen more single female households who are doing more home improvements than in the past.
Mrs Laury said: "We still have a majority of men working in our stores.
We need to move more towards a balance.
Fundamentally half of our customers are female with 80 per cent of the decisions over items purchased taken by women.
Women play a big part in the decision-making process.
Mrs Laury, who is one of only five women at the helm of Britain's FTSE100 index of leading firms, has also restructured her top team to reflect an equal number of men and women directors.
Kingfisher is almost alone in having exactly 50 per cent of its team staffed by women, including its chief executive and finance director.
Mrs Laury said: "This was a conscious decision - diversity is an important topic here.
It has not been difficult to find good women to put on our board.
Kingfisher posted a fall in both half-year profit and sales after the group shouldered the cost of shutting stores.
As a result of the trend Kingfisher, which owns Screwfix and B&Q, is opening 200 new stores
Decision time on interest rates for US Federal Reserve
The world is watching as the US Federal Reserve meets over two days on Wednesday and Thursday, to take the crucial decision on whether or not to raise interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade.
A survey of 80 economists polled by Reuters found a little over half who only last week thought the Fed would go for it, now think it will hold fire a bit longer and keep rates at the current 0-0.25 percent range.
It's a historical event because it's been seven years since the Fed cut rates to zero.
For the first time we are approaching a situation where a major central bank might be able to get out of the zero bar and start a process of normalization of interest rates," said Angel Ubide, senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
The US economy has been performing relatively well, the recovery adding trillions of dollars to the balance sheet and generating little inflation.
However the Fed cannot ignore the less rosy global outlook.
It has warned markets to be ready for a hike but indications are they also believe the odds are against such a move.
The decision is due to be announced at 20.00 CET on Thursday.
Delta State University shooter left note of apology
After shooting and killing his girlfriend in Mississippi on Monday morning - and before he shot and killed his colleague later that day - Shannon Lamb wrote a note to say that he was "sorry" for the first murder and wished he "could take it back," authorities revealed Tuesday.
Police in Gautier, Miss. said Lamb, a geography and social science education instructor at Delta State University, called 911 around 10 a.m.
Monday and said he had shot and killed someone.
Lamb told the dispatcher that police needed to send officers over to his home.
He said "I shot my wife last night" and also mentioned that there is a "sweet dog" in the house that is "not going to bother anyone" but is likely upset.
Police asked the caller his name, but he didn't give it.
Lamb did not provide an explanation for the shooting.
When police got to the scene they found the body of Amy Prentiss, 41, and a handwritten note from Lamb, 45, that said: "I am so sorry I wish I could take it back.
I loved Amy and she is the only person who ever loved me.
After writing the note, Lamb drove 300 miles to Delta State where he killed Ethan Schmidt, a history professor, before eventually taking his own life late Monday as cops closed in.
University President William LaForge said he didn't know of any conflict between Lamb and Schmidt but "obviously there was something in Mr. Lamb's mind."
Despite reports Monday that Lamb allegedly believed Prentiss was also romantically involved with Schmidt, authorities said Tuesday that there was "no information, no evidence" of a "love triangle."
Prentiss was described as a "good person" by Shawn O'Steen, who said he had been married to her for about seven years.
The two divorced 15 years ago, but remained friends.
O'Steen said he and Prentiss had a daughter, who is 19, and she was "devastated."
He said Prentiss and her daughter were "absolutely best friends."
Prentiss worked an online job from her home, according to Linsday Knowles, identified as a close friend of Prentiss by the Sun Herald.
Knowles said Prentiss, who had a hound dog named Lightning, had been dating Lamb for about three years.
"She always wanted to help other people," Knowles said.
Police said Lamb had phoned relatives at some point Monday to tell them "he's not going to jail."
When cops caught up with him on Highway 1 near Greenville later that night, Lamb pulled his car over, bailed out on foot, ran into the woods and shot and killed himself.
Lamb received a doctorate in education from Delta State in the spring of 2015, according to his resume posted on the university's website.
Stars who lost their mojo
The actor (left), pictured with his son Redmond (right), has had a stressful few years.
In 2001, he battled leukemia, and in 2009, he lost long-time partner, Farrah Fawcett, to cancer.
The actor has also reportedly struggled with drugs, and in 2008, he was busted for drug possession.
All that stuff sure does take a toll.
Manchester United's Luke Shaw out for months with double fracture
Luke Shaw suffered a double fracture of his right leg during Manchester United's Champions League defeat at PSV Eindhoven.
While this left the full-back in tears and will rule him out for at least six months, Louis van Gaal remains hopeful Shaw could play again this season.
The injury was caused by a reckless tackle from Héctor Moreno in the 15th minute after the 20-year-old Shaw had burst into the PSV area.
He had nine minutes of treatment on the pitch and required oxygen before being taken to hospital.
Van Gaal said: "He has a double leg fracture and is in hospital."
He will be transferred tomorrow or maybe a day later and then operated on in Manchester.
It is awful - a boy who comes to Manchester United at 18, has it very difficult and then plays fantastically and then this happens.
When it was in the dressing room he had an oxygen mask on.
He was crying.
I am not a doctor but when you have a double fracture it is six months and he will not play in the group phase.
I hope he can play again this season.
Moreno appeared fortunate to escape a red card and the concession of a spot-kick.
Nicola Rizzoli, the referee, did not penalise the Mexican.
Van Gaal suggested the Italian official had erred.
You can judge for yourself when I say it is a penalty and a red card.
It was a very bad tackle with two legs.
A tweet on Shaw's account read: "Thank you everyone for your messages, words can't describe how gutted I am, my road to recovery starts now, I will come back stronger."
Related: Manchester United suffer Luke Shaw blow in defeat at PSV
The England defender will have an added incentive to recover with the European Championship in France next June.
Phillip Cocu, the PSV coach, said: "It's a very bad injury."
If any player goes off with this kind of injury, everybody is very sad about it.
It is never the intention of our players to injure an opponent.
Moreno suffered a broken leg when playing for Mexico against Van Gaal's Holland at the 2014 World Cup.
"He finds it very difficult because the intention was not to injure the opponent, and when you hear it is a very bad injury, it's not good," Cocu said.
For me it was not possible to see the moment.
The only thing I could see was the ball, which was heading in a different direction, so it looked like he [Moreno] touched it, but I couldn't see the tackle on Luke.
Speaking to SBS6, Moreno said: "I know how it feels, I know how difficult such a thing can be.
I feel very bad about it, I am so sorry.
PSV's Andrés Guardado was also taken to hospital following a challenge by Chris Smalling.
Surely David Cameron knows The Lorax better than this?
It's one thing any parent soon learns: when your child loves a book, it won't be long before you know it almost by heart.
Unless, it seems, you are David Cameron.
Asked by a provider of holiday childcare schemes to name his favourite kids' book, the prime minister opted for The Lorax, the 1971 environmental fable by Dr Seuss.
It was a difficult choice, Cameron writes in a message published on the website of the SuperCamps company, continuing: "Funny, moving, creative and with a powerful message, it's one I enjoy reading to my children because there always seems to be an image or a message that we have previously missed."
All very well, except that the subsequent paragraph in which Cameron supposedly describes the plot of the book instead gives a précis of the 2012 film version, which added new characters and detail to pad out the fairly brief original text.
"Set in the walled city of Thneed-Ville, where all nature has gone and even the air is a commodity, a boy named Ted hopes to win the heart of his dream girl, Audrey, by fulfilling her wish to see a real tree," it reads, chronicling a love interest unknown to Dr Seuss, real name Theodor Seuss Geisel, who died in 1991.
If that wasn't suspicious enough, Cameron's submitted text reads in part like a plot summary of the Lorax film provided on the Internet Movie Database website, which begins: "In the walled city of Thneed-Ville, where everything is artificial and even the air is a commodity, a boy named Ted hopes to win the heart of his dream girl, Audrey."
Given he is an avowedly hands-on parent, it seems unlikely Cameron is so unfamiliar with the book's plot, in which a young unnamed boy hears how the local environment was devastated by the avaricious, tree-chopping, thneed-knitting Once-ler, despite the protests of the eponymous Lorax, a squat, moustachioed creature who "speaks for the trees."
Most likely, such a relatively lowly PR task would have been outsourced to an aide, seemingly one who has never read The Lorax 20 times in a row to a child.
A Downing Street spokeswoman said the text was believed to have come from Cameron's constituency office.
SuperCamps confirmed that the text was provided from Cameron's staff, but had no further immediate comment.
Adam Lyth was clearly at risk of England omission but it's still tough
Taking on Pakistan in the United Arab Emirates is a tough assignment but after seeing the squad England have selected for the tour, a repeat of the 3-0 Test series defeat suffered last time does not look on the cards for me.
I wouldn't rule out an away win, either.
Alastair Cook's side may be less experienced than the one three years ago but there are good players of spin in that batting lineup and the collective mindset is strong; they will not carry scars from 2012, only a youthful positivity.
With the ball, Moeen Ali is developing as a spinner and Adil Rashid, even if he is an unknown quantity at Test level, represents an attacking option.
Related: Adam Lyth dropped from England Test squad and replaced by Alex Hales
The decision to omit Adam Lyth is obviously a tough one for me to analyse as his head coach at Yorkshire.
His seven Tests have been against two good attacks in challenging conditions and the simple but harsh reality is that cricketers are judged on output.
There were no question marks over Joe Root, for example, leading up to the announcement because - and I have said this before - players are their own best selectors.
A couple of half-centuries and Lyth might have seen his run extended but he was in control of his own destiny.
Hopefully if he punches out more runs for Yorkshire another opportunity will come along.
The England head coach, Trevor Bayliss, praised his attitude even when he was not performing as well as he can and that does not surprise me; he is a team man above all else.
The question of how long a Test batsman gets to make his mark is a tough one.
Lyth got seven caps - like Sam Robson before him - while Nick Compton got nine.
Only Compton got the chance home and away.
The only gripe you could have was that England went for Jonathan Trott in the Caribbean first - when Lyth was in top form - but that wasted opportunity is in the past now.
Alex Hales comes in and he is a batsman I rate highly.
He is an X-factor cricketer, which we at Yorkshire saw early this season when he made 236 against us on a Trent Bridge pitch that was doing a bit.
He must at least be afforded the same opportunity as those before him but this will of course depend on the make-up of the side in the UAE.
The idea of Moeen opening the batting alongside Cook, which would get the extra spinner in while keeping four quicks, has been floated and it is not something I am against.
I don't see why a strokemaker cannot bat there and this left-hander has already shown he is one hell of a cricketer.
Moeen may not have done the job for his county, Worcestershire, but he has been a No3 for them and there is not much difference.
My old team-mate Justin Langer played his first 38 Tests at first drop before stepping up to open in 2001.
He peeled off three centuries immediately and did not look back.
Zafar Ansari comes into the squad as back-up spinner and, in my limited dealings with him, he has struck me as very impressive young man.
People may look at his raw stats - averaging 31 with the bat and 35 with the ball - and think it's a punt but there are not a heap of spinners putting their hands up and selectors have opted for youth.
He will learn a lot on this tour.
Away from the squad, England look to have made a couple of shrewd additions to their coaching staff.
The appointment of Mahela Jayawardene, the Sri Lanka batsman, as a consultant for the Test matches could be a masterstroke.
He is one of the game's loveliest blokes, who will bring a wealth of experience having done it in all conditions and against all attacks.
Paul Collingwood comes in for the white-ball leg of the tour and will bring both energy and a ruthless streak into the setup.
I always felt he was born to be involved in international cricket, be it playing or coaching, and like Mahela has nous that can be tapped.
Sometimes new voices in the dressing room, even if the messages are consistent with what has been said before, can freshen up a side.
Colly's Durham team-mate Ben Stokes is rested for the one-dayers, Root was given a similar break against Australia and I for one have no issue with this.
While not everyone will agree, the coaches and selectors do not set the schedule.
And you have to remember, like players, their jobs are dependent on results.
Such decisions are never taken lightly.
Brexit camp might win the day if economy is in doldrums by 2017
David Cameron's half-baked renegotiation strategy for keeping Britain in the EU gets deeper into trouble with every day that passes, even without the election of genial Jeremy "Is it Yes or No?" Corbyn to the Labour leadership, or the TUC cutting up rough over Europe on Tuesday.
Foreigners have their Corbyns and Nigel Farages too.
A European diplomat chum explained the other day that, sunk in assorted crises as the EU is - not all of their own making - some member states are fed up with Britain's self-absorbed agenda of divisive concessions and disruptive treaty changes which they mostly don't want.
In Brighton for its annual bean, the TUC decided it didn't want them either if they eroded social protection.
We could even call it Dave and George's selfie agenda.
PM and chancellor rock up to summits or bilateral sessions in foreign capitals, take a photo of themselves in front of a famous local monument, with or without local grandee, then come home and say they are winning allies for reform.
It's all about me.
My European pal, who wants an outward-looking Britain inside the EU tent - "Don't leave us alone with France," says Berlin - suggests that more short-sighted ministers and officials in some capitals have got to the point where they don't care whether we stay or leave.
Angela Merkel, Germany's cautiously level-headed chancellor, is an ally, but has been in power for 10 years and wants to leave office before it goes bad for her, as it did for overstayers Thatcher (11 years), Mitterrand (14) and Kohl (16).
France's François Hollande is facing re-election or replacement in 2017.
He is a fading force too.
Poland may soon have a nationalistic government of the right, Spain one of the left.
It's hard to see them breaking a leg to help the Selfie Brits, whose energy might be better spent preventing Scotland leaving the UK - something they don't want either because most have similar separatist tendencies.
So some such ministers may even be planning to make deliberately unhelpful remarks, SNP-style, during the UK's 2017 referendum campaign to hasten the Brexit process, my pal suggests.
"The renegotiation was a fix" and "Britain got nothing of value out of the renegotiation."
The Europeans know to their cost how predatory Fleet Street can be and how EU-sceptic the oligarch press barons are, as they were not during the Tony Benn-inspired 1975 referendum which endorsed our 1973 entry by a ratio of 2:1.
They may dimly remember Boris Johnson, the arch Euro-opportunist, making his name as an "EU straight bananas" Brussels correspondent in the early 90s.
For all his foolishness Ed Miliband knew who his enemies were.
They included the medley of tax-shy rascals, phone-hacking foreigners and pseudo non-doms who own most of our great newspapers.
Actually Tony Blair thought much the same about them, but realised that when you're in a cage with a randy gorilla you have to pass the bananas to distract it from having you for lunch and again for tea.
In fact Miliband was more Blairite than Blair in opposing Cameron's referendum wheeze, since Blair had conceded the principle over the EU's aborted constitution, sunk by French and Dutch voters in 2005 who gave him a get-out card.
The press never forgave him that either.
But nice Jeremy Corbyn, who gave me a friendly pat on the back at Westminster on Monday - I told him he no longer has time to waste on me - seems to be in danger of re-adopting Neil Kinnock's boycott Murdoch strategy of the 80s, a mistake then and now.
It may take time, but he must develop a coherent strategy to engage with the media, not with me, but certainly with Andrew Marr whose BBC sofa he vacated on Sunday.
Corbyn's official position on Europe is what I will kindly call evolving.
He says he'd like us to stay in a reformed EU.
Well, most people outside Ukip's woad-wearing tendency and the wilder shores of Tory little Englanderism can probably say yes to that.
It's what Hilary "A Benn, but not a Bennite" Benn said on radio and TV this week as the boy scout in him struggled not to admit that Corbyn's appointment of abrasive John McDonnell as shadow chancellor was a bad idea.
It reminded me of the 70s, when his old dad struggled on TV to be disloyal to Labour cabinet colleagues without going too far and losing his cabinet job.
Hilary's struggle was more attractive.
But fighting to stay in "in all circumstances" - Benn's phrase - was not what McDonnell was saying, nor what JC told peers and MPs at their private meeting on Monday night, by all accounts.
Whatever the bottom-up, touchy-feely image Corbyn wants to convey - remember, he even touched me - message discipline remains important in the age of 24/7 TV and especially in the maelstrom that is social media, a hotbed of paranoia and betrayal.
It's fair enough not to give Cameron a free pass on Europe, allowing him to take Labour's support for granted in the referendum campaign, as McDonnell has said.
Simon Jenkins certainly thinks so.
But McDonnell and Corbyn's basic equivocation about EU membership - consistent with their Bennite siege economy, anti-capitalist past - is no longer just a matter of esoteric discussion among leftwing dissidents for whom the narcissism of small difference is a central tenet of doctrinal squabbles.
As with his equivocation over Nato - Tom Watson is adamant that JC won't campaign to quit - foreign diplomats will be obliged to try to make sense of it all for their masters at home.
Why should Paris or Berlin waste political capital - they have suspicious voters too - on concessions to Britain when it may all be pointless?
The US is already pretty disappointed with the Brits" feeble military performance in Iraq, Libya and Syria, even with a cost-cutting Tory government in power, as I was reminded at the launch of something called the British Influence Security Forum on Monday.
Experts criticise Public Health England e-cigarettes review
Claims by a government-funded agency that e-cigarettes are 95% less harmful than smoking arose from a meeting of 12 people, some with links to the tobacco industry, researchers have said.
Experts writing in the British Medical Journal (BMJ) joined the Lancet in criticising the evidence used by Public Health England (PHE) in its report on e-cigarettes.
PHE published the "landmark" report last month, describing it as a "comprehensive review of the evidence."
But several researchers have questioned the robustness of the data and pointed to links between some experts and the tobacco industry.
An editorial in the Lancet medical journal last month attacked the "extraordinarily flimsy foundation" on which PHE based its main conclusion.
Writing in the BMJ, two further researchers have questioned whether the claims were "built on rock or sand."
Martin McKee, professor of European public health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, and Simon Capewell, professor of clinical epidemiology at the University of Liverpool, said: "A fundamental principle of public health is that policies should be based on evidence of effectiveness."
They said the public would expect PHE's claims that "the current best estimate is that e-cigarettes are around 95% less harmful than smoking" would be based on a detailed review of evidence and modelling.
In fact, it comes from a single meeting of 12 people convened to develop a multi-criteria decision analysis (MCDA) model to synthesise their opinions on the harms associated with different nicotine-containing products; the results of the meeting were summarised in a research paper.
McKee and Capewell said one sponsor of the meeting was a company called EuroSwiss Health, whose chief executive was reported to have previously received funding from British American Tobacco for an independent study.
He also endorsed BAT's public health credentials in a sustainability report, they said.
One of the 12 people at the meeting declared funding from an e-cigarette manufacturer but not the funding he was reported to have received previously from the tobacco company Philip Morris International, they added.
The rationale for selecting the members of the panel is not provided, but they include several known e-cigarette champions, some of whom also declare industry funding in the paper.
Some others present at the meeting are not known for their expertise in tobacco control.
The meeting was also attended by the tobacco lead at PHE.
The research paper produced by the group "tellingly concedes" there is a lack of "hard evidence for the harms of most products on most of the criteria," McKee and Capewell wrote.
However, none of these links or limitations are discussed in the PHE report.
McKee and Capewell said PHE's claims that "there is no evidence so far that e-cigarettes are acting as a route into smoking for children or non-smokers" were premature.
Prof Kevin Fenton, director of health and wellbeing at PHE, said the claims in the BMJ had been responded to before.
He said: "E-cigarettes are significantly less harmful than smoking."
One in two lifelong smokers dies from their addiction.
All of the evidence suggests that the health risks posed by e-cigarettes are small by comparison, but we must continue to study the long-term effects.
PHE has a clear duty to inform the public about what the evidence shows and what it does not show, especially when there was so much public confusion about the relative dangers compared to tobacco.
Nearly 80,000 people a year die of a smoking-related illness and smoking costs the NHS £2bn a year.
By spelling out clearly the current evidence - that while e-cigarettes are not risk-free, they carry only a fraction of the harm caused by smoking - we are fulfilling our national remit.
BBC should give up EastEnders, says former Channel 4 chief
The former Channel 4 chairman Luke Johnson has said the BBC should stop broadcasting programmes such as EastEnders and The Voice, saying its commercial rivals would "give their right arm" for hit shows such as the Albert Square soap.
Johnson said the licence fee should only be used to make the sort of programmes that are not made by other UK broadcasters.
He criticised the BBC for putting public service programmes likely to be watched by a smaller audience in tough slots against its rivals" biggest rating shows, and on channels such as BBC4.
After the BBC's director general, Tony Hall, said the corporation wanted to do more in partnership with other organisations, Johnson said he had tried for six years in his time at Channel 4 to do a tie-up with the BBC without success.
"I do struggle with the idea that the BBC commissions and broadcasts programmes that would clearly be shown by unsubsidised rivals," Johnson told the House of Lords communication committee, as part of its inquiry into the future of the BBC.
If you keep the licence fee, which I'm not sure in the medium or long term is a good idea, it should reduce its output at least to programmes that others aren't making and commissioning.
They broadcast The Voice in a prime slot because they want to gain as broad a support as possible for its future.
The idea that no one else would show that is a joke, it's ludicrous, it's obviously nonsense.
Johnson said: "I don't see why a regressive tax should fund programmes that could be funded without subsidy.
The Voice is one, EastEnders is another, admittedly made in-house.
Frankly other channels would give their right arm for it.
I struggle to see how it's public service broadcasting.
I don't think that would diminish the BBC at all.
Johnson, a serial entrepreneur who led Channel 4 from 2004 to 2010, said the BBC was guilty of chasing ratings "because of the ambitions of people who work there, and because they believe that is the best way to secure long-term support."
His comments about the BBC's most popular shows echo those of former Sky executive Tony Ball, who used his MacTaggart lecture in Edinburgh in 2003 to propose that the BBC sell off shows such as EastEnders.
Johnson said the BBC's more niche public service programmes "go on to BBC4 where quite often you can't measure the audience but they fulfil their remit and they can argue when they go on their sanctimonious missions about justifying £4bn in licence fee income, "Well of course, we do all these obscure programmes that no one watched."
They put them on a slot where no one was ever going to watch them.
On the licence fee, Johnson told the committee: "I challenge you to find a more regressive system in terms of who gets the best value from it.
Of course you all think, we all think, £150 a year is great value, but for people for whom £150 is a lot of money I wonder if they do because they don't consume a lot of the BBC.
Former Sky and Channel 5 executive David Elstein, who also gave evidence to the committee on Tuesday, said the BBC should revise its Reithian mission to "inform, educate and entertain."
He said little of the BBC's output was now formally classified as education - he said it was 1% of its TV output and 0.1% on radio - and it should take a lead from public service broadcasters in Australia and Canada and change it to "inform, enlighten and entertain."
On the issue of partnerships, Elstein said the BBC should do more in areas such as the Proms, of which he said only a handful were shown on TV, and enter into alliances with commercial broadcasters to make them all available to watch online.
'Sonogenetics' allows brain cells to be controlled by sound waves
The video shows how the nematodes change direction the moment they are blasted with sonic pulses.
Scientists have bred worms with genetically modified nervous systems that can be controlled by bursts of sound waves.
The tiny nematodes change direction the moment they are blasted with sonic pulses that are too high-pitched for humans to hear.
The pulses work by switching on motor neuron cells that are genetically modified to carry membrane channels that respond to ultrasonic waves.
Related: Researchers read and write brain activity with light
Researchers said the worms demonstrate the power of a new procedure, dubbed sonogenetics, in which ultrasound can be used to activate a range of brain, heart and muscle cells from outside the body.
Sreekanth Chalasani, a researcher at the Salk Institute in La Jolla, California, told the Guardian that the procedure could one day replace deep-brain stimulation, an invasive procedure that delivers electrical pulses into people's brains to treat symptoms of Parkinson's disease.
Nematode worms do not usually react to ultrasound, but Chalasani found that they did when they were surrounded by a fluid containing microscopic bubbles.
The bubbles, he found, amplify the ultrasonic waves which then pass inside the worms.
The amplified ultrasound waves act on structures called TRP-4 ion channels, found in the membranes of some of the worms" cells.
The sound waves make these ion channels open up and activate the cells they are attached to, according to a report in Nature Communications.
To make ultrasound-controlled nematodes, Chalasani genetically modified the worms so that some of their motor neurons carried TRP-4 ion channels.
When he applied ultrasound to the modified creatures, the sound waves were amplified by the microbubbles and transmitted into the worms, where they switched on the modified motor neurons.
The procedure has some similarities with optogenetics, a groundbreaking tool that allows scientists to switch neurons on and off with pulses of light.
But Chalasani said that sonogenetics could have some advantages over that technique.
Unlike light, which has to be sent down an optic fibre to the desired location inside the brain, low frequency ultrasound waves can pass through tissue unhindered, and so can be sent into the brain from on top of the skull.
"We believe that, using gene therapy and a therapeutic virus, it may be possible to make target human neurons temporarily susceptible to the ultrasound signal in a clinical setting for certain neurological treatments," said Chalasani.
Other applications could focus on muscle cells and insulin-producing cells, he added.
Illegal torture equipment - right on your doorstep!
The adverts shaming Britain's arms trade
Watch Amnesty International's anti-arms fair video.
Horrific killer drones!
Ankle-shattering leg irons!
Cluster bombs!
And electric stun batons that cause excruciating pain but leave no trace!
The cheery voice and cartoon imagery leave no doubt that this advert for the world's biggest arms fair is a sharp spoof, produced for Amnesty International to highlight the British government's willingness to flog weapons to repressive regimes via the Defence and Security Equipment International's jamboree at the ExCeL Centre in London's Docklands.
Related: DSEI weapons fair: authoritarian regimes descend on London
But a separate campaign is also leading to many posters cropping up at bus stops and on tube trains that require a second glance.
"Important announcement, Travelling on the DLR from 15th to 18th September?" reads one, using London Underground fonts and branding with the DLR line turning into the image of a tank.
This September, a swarm of arms dealers will be descending on the DLR ... Customers are requested to help stop the arms fair.
The 300 posters are by artists who exhibited work at the Museum of Cruel Designs in Banksy's Dismaland.
A collective called the Special Patrol Group helped distribute it around London using "Ad Space Hack Packs," a £6 pack of Allen keys which it claims "gain access to around a third of bus stop advertising space on the planet."
Transport for London is not amused by this flyposting "vandalism."
One of the spoof ads produced by the Special Patrol Group collective.
According to Gavin Grindon, curator of Cruel Designs and a lecturer at the University of Essex, artists are becoming more questioning and seeking to take political work to audiences outside galleries.
A lot of artists are moving to work with activists within protest movements, realising they have to get out in the real world for their art to have an impact on society.
Another of the anti-arms trade posters greeting commuters on the tube.
The Amnesty video has been watched more than 100,000 times in 24 hours via Facebook and was created by ad agency VCCP working pro bono, with the graphic designer and voiceover artist also working for free.
VCCP creative director Matt Lever was struck by the silence surrounding the advertising of the arms fair - with a blank space on ExCeL's calendar - and thought: "Let's give them the campaign they are trying to avoid."
They toyed with creating a more realistic dodgy corporate advert, but "by ramming it home with bright colours and animation, it was more arresting."
"They've done a fantastic job in helping us raise concerns about the selling of illegal torture equipment at the fair," says Tom Davies at Amnesty.
What we need now is for the UK government to take action and ensure that torture equipment is not illegally traded on our doorstep.
Perhaps the most creative art surrounding the arms fair comes from inside ExCeL, where exhibitors flog fantastically euphemistic products.
In a press release, Saab revealed an order from the US army for "the shoulder-launched AT4CS RS."
This includes a "unique shaped-charge warhead that delivers outstanding behind-armour-effects inside the target."
Whatever that does, it won't be pleasant.
Eight golden rules for living in student halls
It's been 11 years since I moved into student halls as an oblivious 19-year-old, still believing in berets and moral relativism, but it's only now I recall the strained smiles of those I annoyed - and the numerous, lengthy complaints about others.
Most of what I learned can be distilled into eight simple rules.
Moving into halls can range from mildly nerve-racking to totally terrifying.
It's tempting to babble: telling people where you're from, whether and where you took a gap year, where you stand on Corbyn and why you "honestly neither love nor hate Marmite because seriously guys it's just yeast extract HAHAHA I'll be in my room."
Take a breath.
And help others take one too - ask questions and show interest.
It steers the conversation and helps you to scout out the people you like versus those you wouldn't talk to even if your eyelashes were on fire and they were dispensing extinguishers.
Give people space.
People's rooms often morph into drinks receptions, movie-night venues and communal hangout spots, but they're also where people get dressed and adjust their underwear.
Related: Don't even think about starting university in a relationship
Introverts get a raw deal at university.
Your room should be a retreat, yet many halls form an inter-room-strolling culture that's friendly, social and conducive to lifelong friendships.
That can be hell for someone who's trying to recharge.
Nothing in the culture allows you to say, "I like you and I want our friendship to continue, but I need you to go away so I can get back the energy I've expended on interacting with you."
Try to sense when a fellow student is exhausted from socialising - and maybe text instead of knocking.
Speaking of knocking: do it.
One guy in my student halls had a policy that if a door wasn't locked he was invited in.
He saw some things.
Make friends through baking.
Since you're starting uni at the height of Bake-Off mania, knocking on people's doors to introduce yourself with a plate of brownies seems marginally less weird, less 1950s "Welcome to the neighbourhood, I baked you something, now smile as I ask you personal questions."
Offering homemade treats is a great way to make friends.
Your housemates will feel obliged to chat, and may end up associating your face with a tasty surprise.
Obviously this is subject to you being a decent baker.
Poorly-fused lumps of flour, sugar and fat are more likely to make people pretend to be asleep when you knock.
Stealing food is a common crime in student halls.
Obviously nicking someones chicken is theft, but is taking a drop of milk for your tea stealing?
Double check with the milk owner.
Chances are they'll tell you to help yourself even if they're seething inside.
If someone steals your stuff, it's annoying and you have my sympathies - but try to deal with it more maturely than my hallmate, who tainted her milk with washing-up liquid to punish those who stole it.
She's in jail now.
You shouldn't make noise that keeps people from sleeping or studying.
This isn't just to be a decent human, but because you are the proverbial people in glass houses.
A girl on my corridor asked her neighbour if they wouldn't mind turning down the drum and bass because it was 3am and she had an exam in the morning.
They responded by turning it up.
When they finally shut up at 5am, she kindly let them sleep for two hours before blasting her own music, locking her door as she left for her three-hour exam.
Wouldn't it be romantic if your future spouse happened to move into the same hall as you?
Conversely, wouldn't it be knuckle-bitingly awkward if you mistook a hallmate for your future spouse, hooked up, broke up and had to see them every day and possibly watch them get custody of all your mutual friends?
Of course, the heart wants what it wants - but if a hot hallmate is definitely not your future spouse, try to at least talk some sense into your groin.
In the exhilarating moment you realise someone's left their keys inside their unlocked room, the line between pranking and bullying is finer than it seems.
A good prank is funny, but takes moments to reverse.
Teach a valuable and amusing lesson about security by hiding something - but never trash someone's room with toothpaste and shampoo.
Lock their door and put their keys in a glass of water, which you then put in the freezer - but don't Blu-Tack their possessions to the ceiling more than twice.
iOS 9: how to get new iPhone operating system, as Apple update is released
The new operating system can be requested by heading to the Settings app, tapping "General," and then selecting "Software Update."
If it's ready, the phone will give you the option to download and then install it.
Some have run into problems after that installation, being hit by an error message telling them that "Software update failed."
To get around that, users are recommended either to wait for the rush to die down, or to try and upgrade through iTunes.
The phone itself will guide you through the rest of the process.
That might include deleting apps to make space - but Apple has made that less likely by slimming down the update, and also easier to do using a special tool that will suggest apps to delete and then re-install them once the process is over.
It's worth ensuring that your phone is charged or near a charger while the update happens, so that it doesn't run out of battery.
If the charge is too low, Apple won't let the update go ahead, since the phone dying halfway through could lead to the update breaking.
Read more: iOS 9 release still on track despite WatchOS delay iOS 9 review: the least exciting and best update ever iOS 9: how to prepare for new iPhone operating system
You should also make sure that you've been through our checklist of all the things to do before you download, to try and stop things going wrong and protect against them if they do. iOS 9 brings new features including a much cleverer personal assistant and huge new productivity features for the iPad, as well as tweaks that speed up and fix the operating system.
FedEx earnings mixed, lowers fiscal 2016 outlook
FedEx reported disappointing results for its latest quarter, and the delivery giant cut its full-year profit forecast on weaker demand for freight services and higher costs in its ground division.
The company also said it plans to hire about 55,000 seasonal workers for the holidays.
At this time last year, FedEx announced it would hire 50,000 seasonal workers for the holidays.
Its shares fell about 2.5 percent in premarket trading 45 minutes ahead of Wednesday's opening bell.
FedEx Corp. said that it expects to earn between $10.40 and $10.90 for the fiscal year that ends next May, down 20 cents from an earlier prediction.
Analysts expected $10.84, according to a survey by FactSet.
The reduced outlook comes despite rate hikes averaging 4.9 percent, which will take effect Jan. 4, and higher surcharges for ground shipment of heavy or large packages, which begin in November.
The company said it still expects earnings to grow over the previous year because of cost-cutting, higher revenue and growth in online commerce.
Chairman and CEO Fred Smith said the company was "performing solidly given weaker-than-expected economic conditions, especially in manufacturing and global trade."
The holiday-hiring plans were announced a day after rival UPS said that that it plans to hire 90,000 to 95,000 extra workers, about the same that it hired last year.
In the quarter that ended Aug. 31, FedEx earned $692 million, up 6 percent from a year earlier.
Earnings per share amounted to $2.42, short of the $2.44 per share average forecast of 12 analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research.
Revenue rose 5 percent, to $12.3 billion.
Six analysts surveyed by Zacks expected $12.23 billion.
FedEx has been hit in recent years by a decline in priority international shipping, which has caused revenue in its Express unit to stagnate.
But the boom in online shopping has boosted results at FedEx Ground.
In the latest quarter, ground revenue rose 29 percent but operating income was basically flat on higher costs for larger packages and self-insurance.
The express unit saw higher income because of higher base rates, while income fell in the freight business on higher labor costs.
In premarket trading about an hour before the opening bell, FedEx shares were down $3.85, or 2.5 percent, to $150.15.
They closed Tuesday down 11 percent for the year and 17 percent below a record high on June 11.
At their most anticipated meeting in years, Federal Reserve policymakers will spend two days this week seated around a 27-foot Honduran mahogany table deciding if it's time to raise a key interest rate for the first time in nearly a decade.
Looming over them at one end of the central bank's ornate, two-story boardroom will be a mural of the United States.
The map is a reminder that Fed Chairwoman Janet L. Yellen and her colleagues are supposed to put the nation's economic interests above all others.
The central bank has a dual charge from Congress: maximize U.S. employment and keep prices here stable.
But since the Great Recession, Fed leaders have acknowledged that there's an unwritten third mandate: financial stability.
And that third mandate could be the X-factor in a too-close-to-predict decision, to be announced Thursday, about whether the U.S. economy is ready to start being weaned from the unprecedented stimulus provided by the near-zero short-term interest rate in place since late 2008.
Even though most data show the economy growing solidly, the recent turmoil in global financial markets could make already-cautious Fed officials skittish about adding to the volatility by raising their benchmark federal funds rate - even by no more than a mere quarter of a percentage point.
"Obviously the labor market and inflation is going to be first and foremost the most important thing they watch," said Lindsey M. Piegza, chief economist at brokerage firm Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
"But I think if they were looking for an excuse not to raise the rate, the increased uncertainty surrounding the global marketplace is enough to provide them with justification to wait further," she said.
There's no consensus about what the Fed will do, which in itself is causing financial market jitters.
About half of economists surveyed recently by Bloomberg predicted a rate increase this week.
Financial markets, however, are expecting the Fed to hold off, with a key indicator showing only about a 30% chance of a boost.
That would point to a stock market drop if the Fed raises the rate, unless policymakers were to soften the blow by promising that another increase would be a ways off.
On Tuesday, the Dow Jones industrial average jumped 228.89 points, or 1.4%, to 16,599.85.
The rally was triggered by expectations that Fed policymakers will hold the rate steady this week, said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Capital Markets Research Group.
"It would be a surprise if the Fed hiked rates at this point in time," he said.
If Fed policymakers did, "they would have to go to great lengths in their policy statement to hold financial markets' hands so they don't panic."
Other experts argued that a rate increase would calm financial markets because it would remove uncertainty about when the Fed would act.
Just a month ago, the Fed seemed on track to raise the rate by 0.25 percentage point this month, the first small step in a slow tightening of monetary conditions that would validate the strength of the U.S. recovery.
Yellen had said through the spring and early summer that she expected a rate increase this year despite complaints from liberals that more economic progress was needed.
Although job creation slowed in August, labor market growth has been solid this year.
The unemployment rate dropped to 5.1% last month, the lowest in more than seven years and near the level the Fed considers to be full employment.
Wage gains have shown signs of picking up.
And although inflation continued to run below the central bank's annual 2% target, Fed policymakers said a key reason was the temporary effect of sharply lower oil prices.
The economy "can cope with higher rates, and needs them, given the tightness of the labor market," said Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics.
But financial markets around the world started convulsing late last month after China devalued its currency.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped as much as 16% below its record high in May as investors feared a slowing Chinese economy would drag down global growth.
The market has rebounded somewhat this month, with the Dow now down nearly 10% from the May high.
For Fed policymakers, the market turmoil adds to the complex calculus of when to raise the interest rate.
"Absent what happened in financial markets and the news about the weakness in the Chinese economy over the past couple weeks, they would be tightening at this meeting," said Stephen D. Oliner, a senior research fellow at the UCLA Ziman Center for Real Estate and a former Fed official.
Now, he predicts they'll wait at least a month to get a better handle on the effects.
"There's a lot of uncertainty about what the impacts on the U.S. economy are going to be, and they have almost no data to rely on that post-dates the developments in China," Oliner said.
The health of the global economy isn't one of the Fed's primary concerns, so technically it shouldn't be factored into its decision-making.
But, in effect, the Fed has become the monetary authority of the world.
The central bank's influence in recent years has been enormous.
The mere hint by then-Chairman Ben S. Bernanke in 2013 that the Fed might "taper" its monetary expansion triggered market convulsions around the globe.
In a world where markets and economies are increasingly intertwined, Fed officials can be expected not only to monitor the developments elsewhere but also to consult with other central bankers and experts to get a better read on the global economy.
Its decision-making process is "more art than science," said Zachary Karabell, head of global strategy for wealth-management firm Envestnet Inc.
Jeffrey Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Va., noted this month that "the Fed has a history of overreacting to financial market movements that seem unconnected to economic fundamentals."
Lacker, a voting member of the policymaking Federal Open Market Committee who has been pushing for a rate increase, cited decisions in 1998-99 as an example.
A financial crisis in Asia led the Fed to cut its benchmark rate by 0.75 percentage point over three meetings "despite limited identifiable implications for U.S. growth," Lacker said.
A year later, Fed officials reversed those cuts.
The Fed should put financial stability concerns first only during a major crisis, such as the 2008 market meltdown, said Adam S. Posen, a former member of the Bank of England's rate-setting committee.
The latest turmoil doesn't come close to that level, he said.
"You certainly don't want to be put in a situation of being scared of a rate hike because markets got upset," said Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for International Economics.
The Federal Reserve Act still has the dual mandate and does not mention financial stability, and until that is changed, I don't think they should get ahead of the curve.
Need a great Thai market?
Try LAX-C in Chinatown.
Yes, Chinatown
The market/warehouse opened in 1997 and is owned by LAX-C Inc.
Frequently referred to as the Thai Costco, LAX-C is a wholesale Thai market that also sells to the public.
Yes, it's in Chinatown and not Thai Town.
The market/warehouse is a one-stop shop, offering an dizzying array of fresh, frozen and dried goods, popular Thai and Asian snacks, and kitchenware, furniture, religious and holiday decorations.
There's even an automotive section if you need to pick up some motor oil.
The store is massive, and it will take over an hour to comb through all the aisles.
If all that shopping makes you hungry, grab a meal at the LAX-C BBQ Express.
The store's indoor food stall (good, inexpensive) is near the registers, and has various takeout options.
What it stocks: Need something - anything - Thai?
LAX-C probably has it.
Items are reasonably priced, and a number of items are sold in bulk.
Fresh produce includes specialty Asian and regional Thai herbs, fruits and more.
The meat counter is extensive, as is the fish - the staff behind the counter will clean and fillet fish, and even fry it for you if you'd like.
A good portion of the store is given over to the massive freezer section, where you'll find frozen curry leaves, bitter melon and galangal, whole ducks, fish, beef blood and bile, pork casings, fish balls, regional sausages, commercially-prepared foods and more.
Who shops there: Restaurant owners and chefs, also single families and individuals.
The wide aisles accommodate both shopping carts and forklifts.
The find: Fresh monthong durian next to the checkout stand.
Where is it: The store is in an industrial part of Los Angeles hugging the outskirts of Chinatown and Downtown - a few blocks away from Philippe The Original.
Parking: LAX-C has its own lot, which it shares with other shops and restaurants.
While the store can get busy, parking is usually not hard to find.
Brazil's Pediatric Society of Rio Grande Promotes Healthy Breastfeeding Diets
Brazilian pediatric organization SPRS has come up with a shocking way to try and get women to understand the importance of good nutrition while breastfeeding, by featuring images of babies suckling from breasts painted with depictions of unhealthy food.
Human breast milk is composed of a variety of proteins, fats, vitamins, and carbohydrates, which give babies all the nutrients they need to grow a strong immune system.
Due to excess energy requirements, pregnant women and new moms are advised to increase their daily calorie intake by about 500 calories per day.
However, new research suggests that increasing calorie intake is not the only dietary adjustment mothers should make.
A recent study conducted by Robert Waterland, a professor at the Baylor College of Medicine in Texas revealed that healthy diets of pregnant women actually affected the genetic expression of their babies and protected them from developing tumors.
Unfortunately, unhealthy diets were found to negatively affect the child's immune system.
Seven's Sunrise dominates ratings, despite Nine's attempts to cover the leadership spill on Today Show
Karl Stefanovic and Lisa Wilkinson's dash to Canberra to cover the aftermath of the Liberal leadership spill has failed to generate much of a ratings boost for Today.
Nine's breakfast show screened from the national capital after Malcolm Turnbull's overthrow of Tony Abbott.
Rival Sunrise, hosted by David Koch and Samantha Armytage, was stuck in London as part of a week-long series of international telecasts which also include Dubai, New York, Niagara Falls and Cancun.
That tyranny of distance didn't seem to matter much to Aussie TV viewers with Sunrise averaging 397,000 viewers across the five capital cities to Today's 339,000.
Today scored a slight uptick compared to its ratings for Monday (317,000) and last Tuesday (283,000) but its figure was behind last Thursday's (343,000).
Today has been closing the gap on Sunrise in recent months.
In August, Today averaged 318,000 to Sunrise's 330,000.
At the start of the year the gap was running at between 40,000 and 50,000.
So far in September, Sunrise is averaging 349,000 viewers to Today's 314,000.
This is the most interesting thing that's happened all morning.
The winds of change are affecting more than Parliament this morning folks!
Karl and Lisa are fine, thanks for checking!
Posted by TODAY on Monday, September 14, 2015
The big news for Seven was the stunning debut of 800 Words with former Packed to the Rafters star Erik Thomson.
The new drama, about a recently widowed father who decides to relocate to seaside New Zealand with his two children, averaged a very impressive 1.219 million viewers.
Critics had wondered whether Thomson could carry a hit show solo without Rafters star Rebecca Gibney.
Last night's result answered that with a resounding "yes."
Seven's The X Factor stayed strong with 1.136 million viewers, easily beating The Block (838,000) and TBL Families (726,000).
Seven had mixed fortunes on night two of The Chase Australia.
The first half-hour (5pm to 5.30pm) of the new quiz show hosted by Andrew O'Keefe averaged 446,000 viewers.
The second half-hour (5.30pm to 6pm) jumped to 623,000 viewers - enough for a small win over Eddie McGuire's Hot Seat (613,000).
On Monday night, the first half-hour of The Chase Australia averaged 520,000 viewers and the second half-hour a whopping 720,000.
Hot Seat averaged 620,000.
The Chase Australia's second night ratings drop will have Nine quietly confident that Hot Seat will ultimately prevail at 5.30.
The Chase Australia is a replacement for Million Dollar Minute which failed to dent McGuire's show.
Originally published as Sunrise dominates as Today stays local
The final three agree Bachelor Sam Wood is the perfect guy - but who will he choose?
Secret revealed? ...
Lana Jeavons-Fellows, Sarah Mackay and Snezana Markoski may have unwittingly revealed who wins The Bachelor.
The woman who Sam Wood ends up with on The Bachelor has been swathed in utmost secrecy.
And the three girls left standing certainly aren't letting slip whether they are the one who received his final rose.
But when we checked in with Sarah Mackay, Snezana Markoski and Lana Jeavons-Fellows the day before three become two, they may have inadvertently given away a clue as to who the winner will be.
Sam Wood is keeping his lips firmly sealed until Thursday's finale
All three women waxed lyrical over why Wood is the perfect man, citing his sense of humour, ambition, family values and positivity as reasons they would each love to be his partner.
However when asked the question, "If not you, who should get Wood's final rose?," their answers could have provided a spoiler as to who won the Bachelors heart.
Both Jeavons-Fellows and Markoski were quick to name Mackay as, apart from themselves, the best match for Wood.
Sarah Mackay and Sam Wood have shared an easy rapport since day one.
"From the moment I walked into the house, reading (Sarah's) energy and Sam's energy I felt like they were quite compatible and I kept thinking that throughout the course of the show," said Jeavons-Fellows.
"Sarah is really down to earth, she's so much fun to be around," added Markoski.
I've seen them together and they do have that chemistry there.
They do feel nice and comfortable with each other.
Sarah Mackay believes she and Sam Wood would be well suited as a couple.
For her part, Mackay said last week's home visit dates made her realise Wood could be "the one."
"Once I saw him with my friends and family I realised this obviously isn't just a game - I'm wholeheartedly invested in him now," she said.
And asked who Wood should choose if not her, she was enigmatic.
"I don't know if I can say," she said.
I love the remaining girls equally - it's a tie between Snezana and Lana.
The Bachelor airs Wednesday, 7.30pm on Ten.
Originally published as Sarah top choice for Sam Wood?
Jarryd Hayne had several options of where to begin his NFL career.
Detroit and Seattle showed plenty of interest after his move to the US - and there were plenty of other teams making inquiries after his impressive open training day late last year.
But Hayne chose the San Francisco 49ers and coach Jim Tomsula and it's looking like a wise decision.
Some coaches would have benched Hayne for the rest of the game for losing a fumble like the Aussie rugby league convert did on his first punt return in Tuesday's 20-3 win against Minnesota.
But Tomsula showed faith in his man, giving Hayne the next opportunity to return a punt and including him in the running game after an injury to Reggie Bush.
Tomsula continued to show his true colours in the locker room after the game.
Instead of chewing out his rookies in front of the rest of the team, he encouraged them.
Tomsula also backed Hayne publicly in his post-match press conference.
49ers beat reporter Cam Inman reported that Hayne also received encouragement from special teams co-ordinator Thomas McGaughey, who advised him to forget about his dropped catch and worry about the next play.
Jarryd Hayne fumbles a punt that was recovered by the Minnesota Vikings during the first quarter
It was certainly not the start Hayne and his massive Australian following had been hoping for in his NFL debut.
Hayne was seen cursing as he made his way from the field after the fumble and later told Australian radio duo Hamish & Andy on 2DayFM 104.1 he couldn't have imagined a worse start to his NFL career.
"It was just one of those things, you just worry about the next play and that's it," said Hayne.
Hayne likened the blunder to his Origin debut back in 2007 when a pass in his own in-goal led to a Queensland try.
Overall it was still an amazing experience for the 27-year-old.
Hayne posed for a photo with fans holding an Australian flag after the game and posted it to his Instagram.
Elton John and Russian President Vladimir Putin to meet to discuss gay rights
In 2003, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, Russia's wealthiest man, was arrested at gunpoint on a Siberian runway.
Having openly challenged President Vladimir Putin, Khodorkovsky was convicted, his oil company, Yukos, seized and his pro democracy efforts curtailed.
4 Killed After Police Fire Rubber Bullets at Protesters in Nepal
Four people, including a 4-year-old boy, were killed in southern Nepal after the police fired rubber bullets into a crowd demonstrating against the country's proposed new constitution, an official said on Wednesday.
The violence occurred Tuesday evening in the district of Rupandehi, about 175 miles west of Kathmandu, the capital.
Bishnu Prasad Dhakal, the chief district officer, said more than 1,000 protesters had gathered outside a police station, some of them throwing stones and firebombs.
Mr. Dhakal said the police used tear gas and then fired into the air before resorting to rubber bullets.
Twenty police officers and five civilians were wounded, he said.
It was not immediately clear why rubber bullets, which are known to kill but are traditionally used as a less-lethal alternative, apparently produced such a high death toll.
The clash was the latest in weeks of violent protests across Nepal's southern plains, where members of the Madhesi ethnic group say new provinces established under the proposed new constitution would dilute their political influence.
There have also been protests in western Nepal from ethnic Tharus who want their own state.
At least 40 people, including 11 police officials, have been killed in violent clashes since Aug.
10, when four major political parties signed an agreement to divide the country into provinces - a major step toward a new constitution but a highly contentious issue in Nepal, which has been centrally governed for centuries.
Work on a new constitution has been underway since 2008, but lawmakers accelerated the process after the devastating earthquake that killed thousands of people in April.
Lawmakers have been voting on clauses in the draft constitution in Kathmandu this week, and officials have said that the new charter could be enacted by Sunday.
NHC says 60 percent chance of cyclone south of Cape Verde Islands
A broad low-pressure system about 350 miles (560 km) south of the southernmost Cape Verde Islands has a 60 percent chance of developing into a tropical cyclone in the next 48 hours, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said Tuesday.
Another well-defined low-pressure system about midway between the Cape Verde Islands and the Lesser Antilles also has a 60 percent chance of tropical cyclone formation in the next two days, the Miami-based weather forecaster added.
Google launches donation-matching campaign to raise $11 million for refugees
Google Inc (GOOGL.O) announced a donation-matching campaign that aims to raise $11 million for humanitarian organizations aiding the thousands of refugees that have overwhelmed European nations as they flee war-torn and impoverished countries.
Google took an uncharacteristically personal approach in announcing the donation drive on its blog.
Rather than having an executive make the announcement, Rita Masoud, a Google employee who fled Kabul with her family when she was seven years old, wrote about her personal experience.
"Our journey involved many dark train and bus rides, as well as hunger, thirst, cold and fear," she wrote.
I was lucky.
But as the refugee and migrant crisis in Europe has grown, many people like my family are desperate for help.
The donations will go toward four nonprofit organizations that are providing aid to refugees and migrants: Doctors Without Borders, International Rescue Committee, Save the Children and UN High Commissioner for Refugees.
Google said it will match the first $5.5 million worth of donations globally at google.com/refugeerelief until it raises $11 million.
Europe is facing its worst refugee crisis since World War II, largely driven by the four-year-old civil war in Syria, which has displaced more than 4 million people this year.
Many are also fleeing war-torn Afghanistan, Yemen, Iraq and Libya.
Reporting By Yasmeen Abutaleb; Editing by Christian Plumb
For mildly obese diabetics, weight loss surgery may be helpful
The benefits of weight loss surgery for mildly obese people with type 2 diabetes can last at least five years, according to a new study.
It's still to early to say whether mildly obese people with diabetes live longer after weight loss surgery than those who receive non-surgical treatments, however.
"The mortality data take a long time to show up," said Dr. Robin Blackstone, a weight loss surgery expert who wrote an editorial on the new study in JAMA Surgery.
Weight loss operations, or bariatric surgery, use various methods to shrink the size of the stomach.
They reduce hunger and limit the body's ability to absorb food.
Over the years, bariatric surgeries have proved effective for treating type 2 diabetes, but most studies were done in people who are morbidly obese, with a body mass index (BMI) of 35 or above.
BMI, a measure of weight in relation to height, is considered normal between 18.5 and 24.9.
A BMI of 25 or higher indicates that someone is overweight, and people with a BMI over 30 are considered obese.
You can calculate your BMI here: 1.usa.gov/1D0ZqDv.
For the new study, researchers from Taiwan's Min-Sheng General Hospital used data collected since 2007 in a trial comparing two kinds of bariatric surgery - gastric bypass and sleeve gastrectomy - to medical treatments for type 2 diabetes in people who were mildly obese.
The average BMI among those who had surgery fell from 31 to 24.5 by the end of their fifth year in the study.
Meanwhile, the BMI among those receiving non-surgical diabetes treatments stayed about the same at 29.
Among those who had surgery, diabetes resolved completely in 36 percent and partially in 28 percent.
In the medically-treated group, by comparison, diabetes resolved completely in only 1 percent and partially in only about 2 percent.
In addition, control of blood pressure, triglycerides, and "bad" LDL cholesterol "was generally better in the surgical group," the authors found.
The researchers also monitored patients' blood levels of hemoglobin A1c, which reflect blood sugar levels over time.
Hemoglobin A1c is best kept below 7 percent, the researchers write.
After surgery, the average hemoglobin A1c level fell from about 9 percent to about 6 percent.
In the medical therapy group, however, it remained steady at about 8 percent.
But this better "glycemic control" - as reflected by the improved hemoglobin A1c levels - did not reduce the mortality rate at five years, according to lead researcher Dr. Chih-Cheng Hsu and colleagues.
The research team also compared average outcomes with the two types of surgery.
At the fifth year, compared to the sleeve gastrectomy group, the bypass surgery group had lost more weight (18.7 vs 14.2 kg), achieved larger drops in BMI (7.4 vs 5.1) and in hemoglobin A1c (3.1 percent vs 2.1 percent) and were more likely to have complete diabetes remission (46.9 percent vs 16.7 percent).
While the new study does not show a survival benefit or surgery after five years, there is evidence from a study of heavier people in Sweden that surgery does lead to a longer life, says Blackstone, of the University of Arizona College of Medicine-Phoenix.
In the Swedish study, obese people who had bariatric surgery were about 29 percent less likely to die over 15 years, compared to a group who tried more conventional methods.
Though the new study didn't show a benefit in survival among surgery patients, Blackstone said it's reassuring for people with a BMI under 35 interested in the procedure.
"This is where this paper is critical, because it says this surgery is safe in that lower BMI group," with no increased risk of death or renal disease, she said.
Blackstone added that people and their doctors should start taking weight seriously once the patient's BMI falls between 27 and 30.
"I think we wait too long to get people to be serious about this," she said.
I think that once they've accumulated these genetic changes that hardwired their bodies into obesity and diabetes, reversing that is really hard.
"It is impossible for everyone to come to Europe" - Dalai Lama - RT News
Europe could not host all refugees, the Dalai Lama has said, adding that the real solution to the current refugee crisis lies in the Middle East.
The Tibetan Buddhist leader has called for the ending violence in the refugees" home countries.
The Dalai Lama addressed the issue of the ongoing refugee crisis in his speech at the opening of the Dalai Lama Centre for Compassion in Oxford, which is dedicated to ethics studies, at the beginning of his 10-day visit to the UK.
He claimed that, under current circumstances, the interests of humanity should be put before the interests of single nations or even continents.
He also stressed that, however admirable, the West-European countries" response to the refugee crisis is inadequate to the situation.
"It it's impossible for everyone to come to Europe," he said in his speech.
Although the Dalai Lama praised Germany's and Austria's efforts in dealing with the crisis, he stressed that it was only a temporary solution.
"So taking care of several thousand refugees is wonderful, but in the mean time you have to think about long-term solutions, how to bring genuine peace and genuine development, mainly through education, for these Muslim countries," he emphasized.
Ultimately we have to think about how to reduce the killing in their countries.
We have to reduce the use of force.
The use of force has never solved these problems," he added.
Addressing the issue of violence, the Dalai Lama also commented on George Bush's actions following 9/11 terrorist attacks, claiming that the US" violent response engendered a chain of uncontrollable events.
After 9/11 I expressed my condolences in a letter to President Bush and told him the way to solve this problem was through non-violence.
I know his motives were good but he used force and it created unexpected consequences," the Dalai Lama said.
Fourfold increase in children ingesting hand sanitizer in last 4 years
Poison control centers around the United States have reported a nearly 400-percent uptick since 2010 in the number of children under the age of 12 swallowing highly-alcoholic hand sanitizer, according to the Georgia Poison Center.
According to Dr. Gaylord Lopez, director of the Georgia Poison Center, hand sanitizer ingestion cases in children under 12 that were reported to poison control centers went up from 3,266 in 2010 to 16,117 in 2014.
"Kids are getting into these products more frequently, and unfortunately, there's a percentage of them going to the emergency room," Lopez told CNN.
He said some kids are drinking sanitizer intentionally, while some do it to impress their friends or on a social-media dare.
Videos on YouTube show teenagers drinking sanitizer for a cheap buzz.
Teens have reportedly mixed sanitizer with alcohol-containing mouthwash for a stiffer drink.
Younger children can be drawn to attractive sanitizer scents.
"A kid is not thinking this is bad for them," Lopez said.
A lot of the more attractive (hand sanitizers) are the ones that are scented.
There are strawberry, grape, orange-flavored hand sanitizers that are very appealing to kids.
Hand sanitizer contains anywhere between 45 and 95 percent alcohol.
In young children, especially, only a few squirts can cause alcohol poisoning.
"It's highly concentrated alcohol," Dr. Stephen Thornton, medical director of the poison control center at University of Kansas Hospital, told Fox 4 in Kansas City.
So you wouldn't leave a shot of whiskey sitting around, but people will have these hand sanitizers out and if kids get into it, it's a quick way to consume a lot of alcohol.
Nhaijah Russell, a six-year-old girl who recently ingested as many as four squirts of strawberry-scented hand sanitizer at school, was taken to an emergency room for treatment.
Her blood-alcohol level was .179, twice the threshold considered legally drunk in an adult, according to Dr. Chris Ritchey, an emergency room doctor who treated her at Gwinnett Medical Center outside of Atlanta.
Nhaijah was slurring her words and was unable to walk when she arrived at the emergency room.
Doctors monitored her overnight at a separate children's hospital for any signs of brain trauma, as the alcohol caused the girl to fall and hit her head, Ritchey said.
"That was very scary," Ortoria Scott, Nhaijah's mother, told CNN.
It could have been very lethal for my child.
Lopez has recommended parents and teachers use nonalcoholic products or sanitizing wipes short of moving hand sanitizer out of a child's reach.
Beyond alcohol poisoning, some sanitizers have been linked to deaths.
In 2013, two Ontario women died after swallowing hand sanitizer that contained a toxic, undeclared ingredient.
Health officials surmised that the product contained methanol, a deadly agent, rather than ethyl alcohol, which was listed as the active ingredient.
In January, three fourth-grade students in upstate New York plotted to poison their "mean" teacher "by putting antibacterial products around the classroom," according to a police report.
The teacher is highly allergic to hand sanitizer and banned it from her room.
Police considered the foiled plan to be "idle chatter," referring discipline to the school district.
Rumour Mill: No Celtic disharmony
Griffiths plays down talk of disharmony at Celtic as Deila admits Hoops are in a bad place but he'll turn it around.
Hearts to fight SFA over Neilson charge and Warburton wary of January signings disrupting squad unity
Dons stretch lead over Celtic to five points
ADAM Rooney's first-half penalty gave Aberdeen a narrow victory over Hamilton at Pittodrie, allowing the Dons to open up a five-point gap between themselves and Celtic.
Griffiths plays down disharmony talk
It has sparked rumours of disharmony at Celtic, which was dismissed out of hand by Griffiths, who insisted he and his team-mates are not labouring under any sense of increased scrutiny as they prepare to face the Dutch League leaders.
I don't think we feel under pressure, I think the players are looking forward to it.
Lack of Scots title race bores Dutch - de Boer
Former Rangers midfielder and ex-Netherlands international Ronald de Boer has said that Dutch football fans have lost interest in Celtic - because there's no title rivalry with Rangers.
De Boer, currently an ambassador for Ajax, said: "In Holland, they don't show highlights of the Celtic games any more and why?"
It is because Rangers aren't there.
People here don't only talk about Rangers coming back.
They talk about the Old Firm.
They talk about both teams together and that's what they are interested in.
There is a lot of tension in the Old Firm games and it is not just people in Scotland who want to see those games.
I'll turn things around, vows Deila
RONNY Deila has accepted Celtic are struggling, but the Norwegian boss vowed to turn things around.
Defeat to Malmo and subsequent Champions League exit was swiftly followed by losing to 10-man Aberdeen, who now sit five points clear at the top of the table.
But Deila said: "Celtic have had bad periods before and we will come again."
Now we want to come out of it as quickly as possible.
I know it is very frustrating and a lot of people are very, very angry or sad about what is happening.
That is the same as we are - but we have to go on.
We really, really need the support of Celtic because that makes the players much better.
To stay together now is so important.
Warburton wary of January transfers
Despite comments just a couple of weeks ago suggesting that he had identified some January transfer targets, Rangers boss Mark Warburton is wary of a signing spree, insisting he doesn't want to disrupt the Ibrox squad's unity.
The ex-Brentford gaffer said: "The January transfer window is very different from the summer window."
In terms of players coming in the summer, you have that pre-season period to bed them in, which you've seen with our own group this season.
The squad is doing really well.
Sometimes more harm is done by adding unnecessary players to what you really need.
Celtic target Michu in retirement hint
Swansea striker Michu, linked with Celtic during the transfer window, has dropped hints that he could retire when his contract with the Swans is up.
The 29-year-old has been plagued with a troublesome ankle for two years, and failed to find a move away from Wales in the summer.
Hearts set for SFA battle over Neilson comments
Hearts were leading 2-1 when Paterson was dismissed and went on to lose 3-2, but the defender's red card was later overturned - the third Collum red card in eight months to be rescinded.
Neilson is sticking with what he said, insisting: "I didn't question any integrity, I didn't comment on a performance."
Griffiths vows to avoid Tynecastle
The diehard Hibee was carpeted after admitting singing a song with offensive lyrics about ex-Hearts player Rudi Skacel.
The incident happened in a pub in the Roseburn area of Edinburgh before an Edinburgh derby at Tynecastle in March 2014.
"It was a derby and it was heat of the moment," the striker said, adding: "Safe to say I won't be going back to Tynecastle unless it is playing for Celtic."
Tannadice board has faith in Dundee United management - Donnelly
Simon Donnelly insists Dundee United's board still has faith in the management team to turn things round - but concedes the on-field decline must end.
I think Stephen Thompson has faith in us.
We'll get the boys ready to go again," said Donnelly.
McInnes glad to "win ugly" against Hamilton
Derek McInnes admits his Aberdeen side had to cling on desperately against Hamilton Accies to see out a seventh successive league win that moved them five points clear of Celtic at the top of the table thanks to Adam Rooney's first-half penalty.
McInnes said: "There's not a team out there who has won anything, whether it's cups or leagues, who haven't won games like that."
Scots unemployment remains unchanged as UK total rises
UNEMPLOYMENT in Scotland remained unchanged at 164,000 during the period May to July while the number out of work for the UK as a whole increased by 10,000 to 1.82 million during the same period.
Scotland's unemployment rate of 5.9 per cent was above the UK's rate of 5.5 per cent, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) figures showed.
Meanwhile, employment in Scotland fell by 12,000 during the three month period, with the number of those in work now standing at 2,612,000.
The employment rate for Scotland fell over the quarter at 74.0 per cent - a figure above the UK average of 73.5 per cent.
Secretary of State for Scotland David Mundell, commenting on the latest figures, said: "The government's long term plan has laid the foundations for a stronger economy."
It is almost exactly a year since Scotland made the historic decision to remain part of the UK.
In those 12 months we have seen further improvements in the Scottish Labour market with employment increasing and unemployment falling.
Why I'm A Witness At An Execution In Oklahoma
Later today, barring a late legal intervention, I will watch a man being put to death.
If it happens, and I hope it won't, I will sit in a viewing gallery in the death chamber at Oklahoma State Penitentiary as Richard Glossip is executed by lethal injection.
He has asked me to be one of four official witnesses to his death.
The invitation was first made back in January, via his best friend, and though I was shocked, I agreed.
As the day approaches, I've come to dread it.
So why do it?
I agreed because I thought it was a good way of telling the full story about the death penalty.
It would offer a unique perspective.
True, journalists are permitted to watch executions in America and because there are often more applications than seats available, a macabre lottery takes place to decide who will be chosen.
Oklahoma has reduced the number of media seats from 12 to five.
Whoever is picked will watch it dispassionately.
I cannot do that.
I will be sitting alongside Richard Glossip's closest friends, and I have developed my own relationship with him through months of phone calls, and one visit lasting two-and-a-half hours.
I like the guy.
We often laugh a lot when we talk.
The prison authorities say I cannot be both a witness and a journalist, so I won't be allowed a notebook and pen to record what I see.
I will just have to try to remember all the details.
One Oklahoma journalist accused me on Twitter of compromising my impartiality.
Here's the lesson.
Tell the inmate's story the way he likes it, get access.
I complained to her.
She admitted that she "could have phrased it better," but still thinks I'm wrong to do what I'm doing.
Richard Glossip has taken issue with some of the things I've said and written.
He doesn't tell me what to write, and I wouldn't do it even if he did.
I've told him he can remove me from his list of witnesses at any time.
But he wants an international reporter to be there to write about it.
If he dies, he thinks the publicity will help the anti-death penalty movement.
Kim Bellware, a reporter from the Huffington Post, will be alongside me.
If you want to know more about the case, please listen to the series of podcasts I've made.
I won't go over all the details again here.
I cannot say with certainty that Richard Glossip is innocent.
His actions after the murder of Barry Van Treese would make him guilty of being an accessory after the fact.
But I believe there is a strong probability that he is not guilty of murder.
I certainly believe there was not enough evidence to justify a death sentence.
I believe his execution is wrong.
And it's from this perspective that I will watch him die.
I cannot claim to be truly objective.
There will be other reporters you can turn to for that.
What you will get from me is what it's like to watch a man I like die an unnecessary death.
Man coaxed from Canning River after soggy police chase
The Canning Vale constable remained dry as he coaxed the man from the Canning River.
A Perth man's bid to lose a police tail came undone after he found himself in shallow, muddy water just metres from a police officer trying to "coax him gently back to shore."
Canning Vale police were called to a trespassing incident in Beckenham on Tuesday.
When they spotted the suspect he tried to ditch them by heading into the Canning River.
But he didn't get too far.
"He was standing in the water saying 'I'm not getting out, 'come and get me'," Senior Sergeant Shandell Castledine said.
Constable Lachlan Perhavec wasn't too keen on getting his uniform wet, so he employed a safer tactic - "good police negotiation."
"Sometimes people do funny things to try and escape," Senior Sergeant Castledine said.
Champion footballer Ben Cousins provides a memorable example.
In 2006, Cousins ditched his car to avoid a booze bus and attempted to swim across the Swan River.
His efforts were unsuccessful, but did inspire locals to begin planning a tongue-in-cheek Ben Cousins biathlon.
Peter Moody alleges stewards tried to spy on him and threatens to quit racing
Peter Moody has alleged Racing Victoria stewards attempted to plant a spy in his stables last year and threatened to quit racing immediately.
He took aim at stewards and Racing Victoria's integrity department, alleging they have a personal campaign against him with the late scratching of Lady Tatai because of a race day treatment the final straw on Wednesday.
Moody told Fairfax Media he had always tried to do what is best for racing and has found himself in difficult circumstances when it comes to Lidari's positive swab to cobalt, which he can not explain.
He had bitten his tongue about the spy allegations for 18 months and didn't want it "to look like sour grapes."
"I wasn't going to say anything about that and I have sat on it for a long time but sometimes you get so frustrated it all comes out at once," Moody said.
They know it went on.
Sometimes you react and have to live the consequences and I will have to live with what I said.
I will go home tonight and sleep well.
I want to walk around with my head held high and want my owners to think that I am trying my best for them.
When they start to think I'm not that's when I shouldn't be a trainer.
I would then have to consider what I do with my licence.
Earlier, Moody had dropped the bombshell in a racing.com interview that the integrity department had tried to spy on his stable.
"Eighteen months ago Terry Bailey, Dayle Brown and Dr Brian Stewart sat in a room with a man - who I will name if asked - and offered him employment to work in my stables to offer information on what I was doing within my stables," Moody said on Racing.com.
They obviously believe I'm a cheat.
If that's the case surely they should all hand in their briefs because they've been incompetent in trying to catch me.
Robert Roulston, former chairman of RVL, David Moodie, current chairman of RVL, and Bernard Saundry, current CEO of RVL, were aware of that at the time and are aware of that today.
Should that make me think it's becoming personal?
Has RVL got a grow a set of balls and maybe make people outside of trainers responsible for what it is going on the industry?
Am I bad for the industry?
Am I that bad for the industry?
Maybe people out there think I am.
Maybe they need to take my licence off me and push me away and I've got no doubt what I'm saying now might make them think about that.
But I've got to the point now where I don't care and that saddens me.
That really saddens me.
I will put the pressure on them and onus on them to make a decision.
I've got the support of my family and I can walk away.
The trainer's frustration levels have built with the long-running cobalt inquiry involving Lidari and the late scratching had him saying that he could "throw my licence across the table."
Moody, best known for preparing unbeaten champion Black Caviar, labelled the race-day treatment rule "ridiculous" after a mud or clay poultice had been applied to the horses legs, which is against the rules.
It's against the rules of racing.
I've got to accept full responsibility for that," he said.
One of my staff mistakenly laced mud on its leg.
It could have had it last night.
It could have had it yesterday, which it did have.
It had it on race day.
Moody could be faced with a three-month disqualification for the race day treatment using the poultice, which stewards have opened an inquiry into.
It is a joke.
People making these rules know nothing about the horse.
"We all understand that we need for rules but it has gone too far," Moody said.
Cobram hit-and-run driver arrested
Police have arrested a man over a hit-and-run collision with a cyclist in Cobram at the weekend.
The cyclist was airlifted to the Royal Melbourne Hospital with serious injuries after being struck by a car on the Murray Valley Highway on Saturday morning.
Police said the motorist drove away without stopping to help the injured rider.
On Monday a 50-year-old Nathalia man handed himself in to police at Shepparton.
He is expected to be charged with failing to stop at an accident, failing to render assistance, and other traffic offences.
The cyclist, a 40-year-old Cobram man, remains in hospital in a stable condition.
Melbourne Storm coach Craig Bellamy hits back at rivals over wrestling claims
Melbourne Storm coach Craig Bellamy has called criticism of his side's tackling as "agenda setting" by the NRL's two premiership favourites.
Sydney Roosters coach Trent Robinson said the referees allowed the Storm to "wrestle" his side during the Storm's upset win in the qualifying final in Sydney on Friday night.
Brisbane Broncos coach Wayne Bennett made a thinly veiled reference to the Storm after his side's qualifying final win over North Queensland Cowboys on Saturday night when he called that game a "showcase" of the rugby league and said the two Queensland weren't "too big" into wrestling.
Bellamy defended his side's tackling and said they just focused on their "contact" when tackling.
Bellamy added he took confidence from having two leading coaches criticise his side as it meant they were concerned about the Storm beating them.
"That keeps coming up - I didn't hear Trent Robinson bring up wrestling when they beat us 24-2," Bellamy said on Wednesday.
I can guarantee we haven't changed nothing all year with our defensive systems or techniques, it's just that the last six weeks we have made a real emphasis with our contact in tackles and that has been the turn around for us.
Trent has been there three years and he obviously has a great side to coach so he is probably not used to losing so it was a bit of a shock to him.
It's funny how this always comes up at this time of year.
Bellamy challenged Bennett's idea of "exciting football" reminding his mentor that Bennett's St George-Illawarra Dragons won the premiership in 2010 by playing "boring" football.
Wayne is talking about exciting footy.
He made a point of comparing his game on Saturday night with our one on Friday night and how exciting their game was," Bellamy said.
I remember in 2010 St George was criticised a lot for being a boring team and Wayne said he didn't give a rat's arse.
But now he has a team which can play what we would see as exciting footy, especially his young halves with their speed.
That's the footy you would want to play when you have those sort of players.
He made that point in 2010, now he wants everyone to play his style of footy - not every team has two halves like Anthony Milford and Ben Hunt so they can play like that.
To me it builds more confidence because they are saying these things because they are a little bit concerned about playing us.
Six weeks ago they probably weren't thinking of us when they get to the big games.
Bellamy also pointed out the Storm and Roosters game was a higher scoring contest than the Broncos and Cowboys game.
The Broncos game was probably a good game, I haven't watched it yet but what was the score? 16-12?
Our game it was 20-18, there was two more tries in our game but is that exciting footy?
Or is it making breaks and not scoring tries that is exciting?
To me it's agendas.
If they are mentioning us it means that at some stage we might meet them there.
The Storm have this weekend off as they have won the right to host either North Queensland Cowboys or Cronulla Sharks in next Saturday night's preliminary final at AAMI Park with tickets on sale from next Tuesday morning.
Serbian man gets $200k bail on drug charge
A man facing a possible life sentence for attempting to possess 40 kilograms of cocaine that was smuggled into Queensland has been granted bail on a $200,000 surety.
Marko Maksimovic, 29, was one of five men arrested last month after federal police tracked 100 kilograms of the drug from the yacht Solay, which came from South America via Vanuatu and docked at Coomera in August.
Maksimovic was observed meeting with his co-accused at the marina throughout the morning and later met them at the Coomera Roadhouse cafe, where police found 40 kilograms of the drug in a Toyota Echo.
Despite facing a potential life sentence for attempting to possess a commercial quantity of cocaine, Maksimovic's lawyer argued there was no evidence that he was attempting to possess all of it and that he might have been at the cafe for an innocent purpose.
Supreme Court Judge Peter Flanagan was concerned Maksimovic was a flight risk.
He has clear connections to Serbia.
He travels to Serbia often," he told the court on Wednesday.
On the crown case he lied to police about where he was staying.
Maksimovic's mother and stepfather had jointly offered a surety of $200,000 to secure his release.
"Having read the affidavits of both those persons, it is clear that the imposition of a surety of $200,000 constitutes a real financial burden on them," Judge Flanagan said.
But that alone was insufficient to deter him from failing to appear, he warned.
Maksimovic was granted bail on the conditions that he surrender both his Australian and Serbian passports, report to police on a daily basis and adheres to a 6pm-6am curfew.
Stevan Hogg used girls phone to lure paedophiles to send images
A paedophile used an 11-year-old girl's phone to solicit child abuse images.
Stevan Hogg took the girl's phone as she slept then logged into an online messaging service where he had a succession of indecent images of children sent to him by another user.
The girl later woke up and discovered the phone was missing and found it in sleeping Hogg's hand.
She looked through it and found the disturbing messages before immediately alerting her mother.
Police attended and saw the five pictures, then analysed computers found at the address and discovered "concerning" web searches using terms for finding indecent image of children.
Hogg then claimed to officers he had done it as it would "lead paedophiles" on the internet before "pretending he was a police officer to scare them."
Fiscal depute Eilidh Robertson told Dundee Sheriff Court: "He said it was an addiction - that he was addicted to scaring people.
He accepted the searches were made by him on the computer but said it was because he wanted to pretend to be a police officer to scare paedophiles.
He was asked about his conversations with the unknown person who sent him the images and him asking them to send more photos.
He said he was doing it to lure them in.
He said he was sick in the head when he was drinking and said he wants to view rape and murder images.
Ms Robertson added: "When the girl found the messages on the phone she shouted her mother and was shaking and crying.
She saw the indecent images on the phone and the accused was then confronted.
The girl was interviewed and spoke of the accused using the computer and Playstation to talk to girls who looked way younger than him.
Hogg, 23, of Ward Road, Dundee, pleaded guilty on indictment to charges of taking or making indecent images of children on June 14 last year, breaching bail on January 25 this year and failing to attend at court for a hearing on March 24 this year.
Defence solicitor Gregor Sim asked that Hogg not be placed on the sex offenders register as it may be argued there was "no significant sexual element" to his crime.
Sheriff Alistair Carmichael deferred sentence until October for social work background reports.
Hogg was granted bail in this case but was held in custody ahead of hearings on other outstanding cases.
He was placed on the sex offenders register ahead of his sentencing date.
Zimbabwe's Robert Mugabe delivers wrong speech in parliament
Mr Mugabe, Africa's oldest leader, earlier this year fell down the steps leading from a podium.
He was unhurt, but video of the fall went viral on social media.
The opening of parliament was also tarnished by claims by opposition legislators that they had received anonymous death threats warning them against booing Mr Mugabe during his address.
Last month, they booed and heckled him during his state of the nation address in parliament - which is the speech he repeated on Tuesday.
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) chief whip Innocent Gonese said seven opposition politicians received text messages on their mobile phones warning them not to disrupt Nr Mugabe's address.
"The message is coming from a number which is not reflecting but it's titled 'death'," he told journalists after Mr Mugabe's speech.
It warns the members concerned to know that immunity ends at parliament and once they step out of parliament that parliamentary immunity does not operate.
The chief whip said the party, led by Morgan Tsvangirai, is "worried" about the threats to its politicians.
Hewlett-Packard to cut up to 30,000 jobs
Hewlett-Packard expects to cut 25,000 to 30,000 jobs as part of its restructuring and cost-saving efforts at it enterprise services business.
HP is splitting into two listed companies later this year, separating its computer and printer businesses from its faster-growing corporate hardware and services operations.
The expected job cuts will result in a charge of about $2.7bn, beginning in the fourth quarter, HP said in a statement.
"These restructuring activities will enable a more competitive, sustainable cost structure for the new Hewlett Packard Enterprise," said Meg Whitman, the HP chairman and chief executive who will head the unit after the split.
"Hewlett Packard Enterprise will be smaller and more focused than HP is today, and we will have a broad and deep portfolio of businesses that will help enterprises transition to the new style of business," said Whitman.
As a separate company, we are better positioned than ever to meet the evolving needs of our customers around the world.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise will have more than $50bn in annual revenue and "will be focused on delivering unrivaled integrated technology solutions" to companies, according to a company statement.
It breaks up a company formed in the 1930s by Stanford University graduates Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard to make electric equipment, and whose Palo Alto garage has been dubbed "the birthplace of Silicon Valley."
HP has been undergoing a massive reorganisation to cope with the move away from traditional personal computers to mobile devices.
The move by HP, the world's second-largest PC maker and one of the biggest US tech firms, is the latest in the sector based on the belief that tightly focused firms perform better.
Arsenal captain Mikel Arteta says team-mates must get behind injured Jack Wilshere ahead of Dinamo Zagreb tie
Wenger has also stressed to Wilshere that it is still only September and, providing his rehabilitation goes to plan, there is no reason why he cannot be back playing by Christmas.
That best-case scenario already means that Wilshere is certain to miss at least the next four England games and, given his history, his involvement in next summer's European Championship is clearly uncertain.
The great shame of this latest problem is that Wilshere had finished last season strongly after a separate ankle injury and then looked back to his old sharpness during pre-season.
"This kind of injury is not career-threatening," said Wenger.
It is a bone that did not heal well.
It is nothing major.
This was just an accident.
It was not linked with his ankles or with the injuries he had before.
That might be true from a purely medical perspective but, as Wenger also acknowledged, there is the related danger of further injuries whenever any player tries to return midseason.
There is also an uncomfortable pattern developing.
Research by Premier Injuries Ltd records 23 different Wilshere ailments since he made his debut six years ago.
He has also played in only 65 of Arsenal's 157 league games during the last five seasons.
The wider picture for Arsenal is that in six out of eight seasons since 2007-08, they have been one of the two Premier League clubs to lose most days through injury.
Wenger accepts the potential of a vicious circle but Arsenal believe that an improvement in their injury record during last season will continue.
"Sometimes, when you are coming back from an injury, you have a vulnerable period, a time when you need to strengthen your body and gain competition," said Wenger.
Jack is young enough to get over that.
I hope his body stabilises, I am confident it will and he will make a career of the kind he deserves.
With Arsenal beginning their Champions League campaign on Wednesday night against Dinamo Zagreb ahead of matches with Chelsea on Saturday and Tottenham Hotspur next Wednesday, Wenger is preparing to rotate his team.
Héctor Bellerín and Aaron Ramsey have not travelled to Croatia, meaning Mathieu Debuchy and Arteta are likely to start.
Wenger may also begin with Kieran Gibbs and Olivier Giroud in place of Nacho Monreal and Theo Walcott.
"I try to keep the balance and give a little breather to players who need it," said Wenger.
Although Arsenal are clear favourites to progress through Group F, the Maksimir stadium in Zagreb is among Europe's most intimidating.
Dinamo are also unbeaten in 41 matches after producing their own "Invincible" campaign last season.
The stadium was shaken on Tuesday night by an earth tremor that measured 3.2 on the Richter.
It was the 10th in Zagreb this year.
Wenger believes that Arsenal have learnt the lesson of last season's Champions League capitulation against Monaco and remains driven by the distant hope of managing the club to a first European Cup triumph.
"This drive is immense," said Wenger.
It has never been done at Arsenal.
We were very close in 2006 but, on the other hand, I am long enough to be realistic.
We are ambitious but we are not dreamers.
FriendsFest: the comedy show that taught us serious lessons about male friendship
The absence of similar portrayals in shows is glaring, particularly given how the need for men to open up is more desperate now than ever, with suicide rates amongst young males at 15 year high.
In 2013, it was the single biggest cause of death in men aged 20-45 in the UK, and remains three times more common in males than females.
In a bid to address the problem, the Campaign Against Living Miserably (CALM) announced 2015 as the Year of the Male, aiming to challenge the culture that prevents men from seeking help when they need it.
Friendship lies at the heart of the battle to meet this challenge.
A recent study of more than 2,000 high-school students displaying depressive symptoms found that if the sufferer had a high enough percentage of "healthy mood" friends, their chances of recovering doubled.
Equally, for those not depressed, a circle of mentally healthy friends halved the chances of mental challenges arising.
But of course, for friendship to work, it needs to be accessible in the first place.
In this age of social-media led communication, with its focus on style over substance, immediacy of response is often prioritised over meaningful contact.
Our digital lives have doubled the need to appear strong, fun-loving and successful, even if in reality isolation is king.
This superficial success is dominated by what psychologists term extrinsic values; money, image, social status, all at the expense of intrinsic values - our inner yearning for personal growth and friendship - that more deeply impacts our mental health.
And as a billionaire video-game creator explained recently, money really doesn't buy greater happiness.
The beauty of Friends was that it turned this focus on its head.
Each of the characters were not defined by their work, but rather their personalities, which shone through the interaction as friends.
The humour of Joey and Chandler's frequent hugs, moments watching football on the comfy chairs, and Ross's pining for Rachel, came from the knowledge that yes, men can all relate to this, even if they often hold back from fully exploring their feelings.
As a Samaritan worker explained to me: ...."my listening role to people feeling depressed and suicidal has really highlighted how even the smallest interactions from friends can make a difference."
Often the men who contact us feel unable to speak to friends.
The old adage of "getting on with it" is strong, as is the sense that it will be perceived as weak to open up about problems."
Friends is one of the shows that comes to mind when I try and offer more long-term coping mechanisms.
It highlighted the little moments of male friendship.
As much as my objective, outsider status over the phone helps people in moments of desperation, the long-term support comes from a close, personal family and friend network.
And so, if you attend Comedy Central's FriendsFest this weekend, with the sets fully redesigned in celebration, why not take your friends for a drink at Central Perk.
Or, better still, if in Starbucks you see someone alone, give a smile and say hello.
You never know what difference your friendship could make.
Friends is broadcasting on Comedy Central from start to finish - the full 236 episodes - for #FriendsFest
Di Maria scores to help PSG swat aside Malmo
Angel Di Maria celebrates with Blaise Matuidi and Edinson Cavani after scoring against Malmo.
Angel Di Maria scored on his Champions League debut to help PSG ease past Swedish side Malmo on Tuesday.
Here's the match report and reaction to the game.
Angel Di Maria and Edinson Cavani were on target as Paris Saint-Germain began their Champions League campaign with an ultimately comfortable 2-0 win against Malmo at the Parc des Princes on Tuesday.
Di Maria scored less than four minutes into his Champions League debut as a PSG player to set the French champions on their way, but they missed a succession of opportunities before finally extending their advantage when Cavani headed home in the 61st minute.
With Real Madrid and Shakhtar Donetsk also in Group A, Paris needed a strong start against the Swedish champions as they target not just qualification for the knockout rounds but an improvement on their runs to the quarter-finals in each of the last three campaigns.
But while they got the points, it was not a vintage display by Laurent Blanc's side with Zlatan Ibrahimovic wasteful in front of goal and later being substituted against his hometown team and the club with whom he started his illustrious career back in 1999.
"It's not easy to win at home or away in the Champions League, so to win 2-0, cause our opponents problems and look comfortable at the back is a good start even if there are certain things we will need to perfect as the season goes on," said Blanc.
It augurs well.
We wanted to win and we did, although I regret that we did not score one or two goals more.
Ibrahimovic returned after injury in one of three changes to the Paris team that had been held to a 2-2 draw at home by Bordeaux in Ligue 1 at the weekend, but he was upstaged in the fourth minute by Di Maria.
The Argentina winger was labelled as the man to take PSG to the next level in Europe when he was signed from Manchester United last month, and he indicated why as he ran onto Marco Verratti's pass in behind the Malmo defence before angling a beautiful finish past Johan Wiland and into the far corner of the net.
However, if anyone then expected PSG to romp to a big victory, they were to be disappointed.
Malmo, who beat Celtic in a play-off to reach this stage, lined up with nine full internationals on the field at kick-off and, with a five-man defence and two deep in midfield, were stuffy opponents.
But, save for a Nikola Djurdjic shot that slid just wide of Kevin Trapp's far post in the 34th minute, they offered little in attack.
Instead, PSG let themselves down at times with some wasteful passing and poor finishing, not least from Ibrahimovic, who failed to convert no fewer than five attempts in the first half alone and was then let down by his touch having been put in by Cavani just after the restart.
Nevertheless, he proved much more adept when it came to setting up his colleagues, and it was from an Ibrahimovic pass that Di Maria sent in a curling shot which was tipped around the post by Wiland on 52 minutes.
The second goal finally arrived just after the hour mark thanks to Cavani, the Uruguayan heading home his sixth of the season after Ibrahimovic had flicked on a left-wing cross from Maxwell.
That ended any ideas that Malmo had of coming back into the game, and only a superb stop by Wiland from point-blank range to deny David Luiz kept the final score down before substitute Ezequiel Lavezzi had a goal disallowed right at the death.
Malmo coach Age Hareide later admitted PSG were a class above his side, the Norwegian saying: "Our last Champions League game was in December last year."
Since then we have only played in the Swedish league which is not the same level.
The qualifiers are not enough.
Hats off to Paris.
It was a magnificent match from them.
Glencore raises $2.5 billion in share sales
Swiss-based mining giant Glencore, hit by collapsing commodities prices, on Wednesday raised $2.5 billion via a shares sale as part of its vast debt-slashing plan.
London-listed Glencore said in a statement that it had sold new shares worth about £1.6 billion to pay down debt.
The company, which has lost 57 percent of its market value this year, is grappling with tumbling commodity prices as China's economic slowdown weighs on demand and sparks havoc across markets.
The rights issue sent Glencore's share price soaring to the top of the London stock market in early morning deals on Wednesday.
Shares jumped 2.77 percent to 131.60 pence on the FTSE 100 index, which opened 0.69 percent higher.
Glencore had last week revealed the $2.5-billion shares sale as part of broader plans to slash its $30 billion debt pile by about a third.
The company sold the new stock at 125 pence per share, which marked a 2.4-percent discount to the closing price on Tuesday.
It offloaded 1.3 billion shares worth up to 9.99 percent of the group.
Concerns over prolonged stalled Chinese growth have slashed iron ore prices by roughly a half, as coal, copper and other commodities have fallen by 20 to 40 percent.
White House Confirms Xi Jinping's Washington Visit
Chinese President Xi Jinping will make a state visit to the U.S. at the end of the month, the White House confirmed in a statement on Tuesday.
The visit, Xi's first official one to Washington, will take place on Sept. 25 and reciprocates President Barack Obama's trip to Beijing last November, the statement said.
The U.S. President and First Lady Michelle Obama will also host Xi and his wife Peng Liyuan at a state dinner that evening, after the two leaders have engaged in bilateral talks.
"President Xi's visit will present an opportunity to expand U.S.-China cooperation on a range of global, regional, and bilateral issues of mutual interest, while also enabling President Obama and President Xi to address areas of disagreement constructively," the statement added.
Xi, whose visit was first announced in February, is expected to stop in Seattle to meet several U.S. tech leaders on his way to Washington, before going on to New York City for the U.N. General Assembly on Sept.
Obama and Xi are expected to broach a range of contentious issues, including Washington's concerns over China's alleged cyberespionage and its increasing assertiveness in the disputed waters of the South China Sea.
Matt Damon downplays diversity in filmmaking
Matt Damon confronted African-American filmmaker Effie Brown during a discussion on diversity saying it wasn't needed behind the scenes.
During Sunday night's episode of HBO's Project Greenlight, the seasoned actor cut Brown off while she was emphasizing the need for alternative perspectives regarding a black protagonist in the project's chosen screenplay.
"When we're talking about diversity you do it in the casting of the film not in the casting of the show," Damon asserted.
Shocked, Brown reacted with offended disbelief, letting out "Hoo! Wow. Okay," as The Martian actor's comments settled in the air.
Damon and Brown were joined by fellow producers Ben Affleck and the Farrelly brothers to discuss the show's finalists.
"I would urge people to think about -- whoever the director is, how they're going to treat the character of Harmony," Brown initially said.
The only black character who's a hooker who gets hit by her white pimp.
The Dear White People producer pushed for finalists Leo Angelos and Kristen Brancaccio for the rights to direct the film; Damon retorted their directing could "end up giving us something we don't want."
After the discussion aired, social media exploded in disapproval over Damon's comments.
Twitter user MrPooni expressed anger toward the clip writing, "Matt Damon speaking over the only black person in the room so he can explain diversity to her is SO WHITE it hurts."
The tweet earned more than 5,000 retweets and 4,000 likes since being posted.
Damon's comments come at a time where accurate racial representation in media is at the forefront of social discussion.
After teen Michael Brown was killed by a white police officer in 2014, the Black Lives Matter movement took nationwide effect, urging lawmakers and authorities to halt discriminatory practices against people of color.
In February, singer Prince alluded to the movement while introducing the nominees of Album of the Year at the Grammy Awards.
"Albums still matter," he said.
Like books and black lives, albums still matter.
More recently, leaders of the Black Lives Matter movement released a statement in response to Fox News personality Elisabeth Hasselbeck's question of whether the group should be considered a hate group.
"The Black Lives Matter Network is a love group," leaders said.
Damon was recently announced as one of a list of entertainers, producers and media moguls invited to visit the Pope to discuss the Catholic Church's portrayal in the West.
Whether he accepted the invitation or has already met with the Pope is unclear.
'American Ninja Warrior' crowns first champion
Pro-rock climber and busboy Isaac Caldiero became the first athlete to win American Ninja Warrior Monday night taking home the $1 million grand prize.
The competition show, which just wrapped up its 7th season, has never seen any competitor complete all stages of its obstacle course.
During the season finale, two men, Caldiero and cameraman Geoff Britten, made it to the final round.
The final task involved climbing a 75-foot rope in 30 seconds.
Britten went first completing the challenge on time, making him the first-ever athlete to complete American Ninja Warrior's grueling stage 4, however, Caldiero finished the challenge a full three seconds faster making him the winner.
Caldiero spoke with E!News after the hard-fought victory, still in shock about winning the $1 million grand prize.
"I mean it's amazing to think about, like I've never made or lived off more than $10,000 a year," Isaac told E! of his serious pay-bump.
So to all of a sudden...like I can't even imagine what it's going to be like...the future is unknown.
Executive producer Kent Weed sat down with The Hollywood Reporter to discuss the finale and why, despite Britten being the first ever competitor to finish the course, won't be awarded any prize money.
By the rules, the money goes to the fastest person.
"If there's more than one finisher, the one with the fastest time gets it," said Weed.
As much as the money is a wonderful prize and life changing, he does get the great gratification.
I don't think he harbors any ill will about it.
He's just so happy to have done what he's done.
He's received tons of accolades from fans.
He's such a great guy, and a family man.
He's a hero to his kids and his wife.
Geoff said to me, "If I was going to be beat by someone, I'm glad it's Isaac."
And I think Isaac would have felt the same way if they roles were reversed.
America Ninja Warrior was renewed for an eighth season, which will begin filming in Spring 2016.
Detroit Tigers tiptoe past Minnesota Twins
MINNEAPOLIS -- The second half the season hasn't been a lot of fun for the Detroit Tigers.
Once one of the best teams in baseball, the Tigers are now in last place in the American League Central.
Reducing to being a spoiler, the Tigers played the part perfectly Tuesday, beating the Minnesota Twins 5-4 at Target Field.
The Twins squandered a chance to climb to within one-half game of the Houston Astros for the second American League wild-card spot.
For Detroit, if only for one night, it was a return of the three-letter F-word that has been so elusive over much of the season's second half.
"All wins are fun, no matter how it happens," Tigers manager Brad Ausmus said.
Tigers pitcher Alfredo Simon made his early offensive support hold up, as Detroit scored three times in the first two innings, then tacked one in the sixth and one more in the ninth.
Simon (13-9) pitched 6 1/3 innings and allowed three runs.
It was only his third quality start in his past nine outings.
"I just want to finish strong this year," Simon said.
It's hard for the bullpen to throw every game, and that's why I want to go deep into the game.
Tigers designated hitter Victor Martinez had three hits and drove in two runs, his first RBIs since mid-August.
It was Martinez's first three-hit night since he had four hits against the Seattle Mariners on July 6.
"He swung the bat well," Ausmus said.
He looked good in (batting practice), looked noticeably better in BP, and he carried it right into the game.
Trailing by three runs in the bottom of the seventh inning, the Twins had their best chance to get back into the game.
Center fielder Byron Buxton led off the inning with a double down the left field line.
Right fielder Aaron Hicks reached on a bunt single, and Simon got second baseman Brian Dozier to strike out swinging before being lifted for left-hander Blaine Hardy.
Hardy walked Mauer, the only man he faced, ahead of rookie designated hitter Miguel Sano, who ripped a two-run single to left off right-hander Drew VerHagen.
With a pair of runners on and the tying run at second, VerHagen got third baseman Trevor Plouffe to ground into a double play.
It was the major-league-leading 27th time this season that Plouffe hit into a DP.
After Detroit tacked on an insurance run in the top of the ninth, Mauer ripped an RBI double to the gap against Tigers closer Bruce Rondon to make it 5-4.
However, the right-hander struck out Sano on three pitches for his fifth save.
Detroit took advantage of a rusty Phil Hughes in the early going.
The Tigers posted three runs in the first two innings against the veteran right-hander, who came off the disabled list before the game after missing more than a month because of lower back inflammation.
"Obviously not the start I'd like to have," Hughes said, "but I felt more comfortable as I went along and felt I was able to execute some pretty good pitches there in the third inning."
After getting the leadoff batter in the first, Hushes gave up a single to second baseman Ian Kinsler.
A two-out walk to right fielder J.D. Martinez brought up Victor Martinez, who singled up the middle for the first run of the game.
Victor Martinez snapped his 0-for-21 streak with runners in scoring position.
Third baseman Nick Castellanos followed with a single to right, scoring another run, but Victor Martinez was thrown out trying to advance to third, ending the threat.
The Tigers added on in the second, getting a one-out double from catcher James McCann and a two-out single by center fielder Anthony Gose to make it 3-0.
"That was a big hit," Twins manager Paul Molitor said.
He didn't hit it particularly well, but he got it in the right spot.
Hughes, who was on a pitch count, pitched a scoreless third inning before being replaced by right-handed reliever A.J. Achter.
Hughes was charged with three runs on six hits and a walk with four strikeouts.
NOTES: Tigers RHP Anibal Sanchez was shut down with a strain in his throwing shoulder.
He will be examined by Dr. James Andrews, who performed surgery on Sanchez's shoulder back in 2007.
Sanchez, on the disabled list with a shoulder strain since mid-August, was scheduled to be activated for a Wednesday start.
With Sanchez out, LHP Daniel Norris will come off the DL to start against the Twins.
Norris is 1-1 in four starts with the Tigers since being acquired in a trade for LHP David Price on July 30.
He has been out since Aug. 20 with a strained right oblique.
The Tigers and Twins will wrap up their three-game series at Target Field on Wednesday.
Norris (2-2, 4.43 ERA) will oppose Minnesota RHP Ervin Santana (5-4, 4.73 ERA).
Xi urges to open economy wider to world
The economy must open wider to the outside world to fuel growth, President Xi Jinping told a group tasked with steering reform on Tuesday.
"China should be committed to attracting foreign investment and expertise, and improve opening-up policies," he said, addressing the 16th Meeting of the Central Leading Group for Deepening Overall Reform.
Promoting opening up while pushing forward reforms will add new impetus and vitality, and provide new room for economic growth, Xi said.
The leading group adopted a series of guidelines including a negative list regulating market access, relaxation of border-control policies, encouraging state-owned enterprises (SOE) to absorb private capital and overhauling the resident registration system.
According to the statement, a negative list, identifying sectors and businesses that are off-limits for investment, will be drawn up.
The system will be gradually tested and improved through trial programs.
The move is significant as it will give the market a bigger role in allocating resources, ensuring a law-based business environment and making the market more open, the statement said.
The government will also loosen controls on the powers it delegates to companies, making sure that companies decide how to run their businesses.
The statement also said China will allow border areas to explore new models of cross-border economic cooperation and new mechanisms for promoting regional growth.
In a bid to open up state-controlled sectors, more areas will be open to private investment.
"The government will not change its policy toward foreign investment, and will protect the lawful interests of foreign-funded companies and provide better services for them," said the statement.
In addition, it will be made easier for foreigners to apply for permanent residence permits, or "green card," by optimizing requirements and streamlining the application process.
Guaranteeing lawyers' right to practice and nurturing professional judges and prosecutors were also discussed at a meeting.
The meeting was also attended by Premier Li Keqiang, and senior leaders Liu Yunshan and Zhang Gaoli, according to a statement released after the meeting.
28-Year-Old Chef Found Dead at San Francisco Mall
A 28-year-old chef who had recently moved to San Francisco was found dead in the stairwell of a local mall this week.
But the victim's brother says he can't think of anyone who would want to hurt him, saying, "Things were finally going well for him."
The body found at the Westfield Mall Wednesday morning was identified as 28-year-old San Francisco resident Frank Galicia, the San Francisco Medical Examiner's Office said.
The San Francisco Police Department said the death was ruled a homicide and an investigation is ongoing.
The victim's brother, Louis Galicia, told ABC station KGO in San Francisco that Frank, previously a line cook in Boston, had landed his dream job as line chef at San Francisco's Sons & Daughters restaurant six months ago.
A spokesperson for Sons & Daughters said they were "shocked and devastated" by his death.
"We are a small team that operates like a close knit family and he will be dearly missed," the spokesperson said.
Our thoughts and condolences are with Frank's family and friends at this difficult time.
Louis Galicia said Frank initially stayed in hostels, but recently, "Things were finally going well for him."
"He found an apartment, he was dating a girl," Louis Galicia told KGO.
Louis Galicia said he could not think of anyone who would want to hurt his younger brother.
He was a kind spirit with a big heart.
His way of connecting with the family was always making us a dish, making us dinner," Louis Galicia said.
He never wanted to be in any kind of altercation.
He was the brother that went with the flow.
"With everything else that's going wrong with the world, he was that diamond in the rough that was shining bright every day," he said.
Anyone with information is asked to call the SFPD Tip Line at 415-575-4444.
Junior doctors strike: Calls for fresh industrial action
Representatives of junior doctors have called on their union to authorise fresh industrial action in their dispute about a new contract.
The Junior Doctors Committee (JDC) of the British Medical Association (BMA) is to ask its full council to back more industrial action from early September.
The JDC says ministers have failed to address concerns about the contract.
Junior doctors and medical students voted in July to reject a contract deal agreed with the BMA.
It was rejected by 58% of its members who voted in the ballot.
In a letter to members released on Twitter on Thursday night, the JDC's chair Ellen McCourt said the government had remained "persistently silent" on issues which, she said, had resulted in the contract being rejected.
She said: "In light of this, the JDC Executive has voted to reject the proposed new contract in full and to call for formal re-negotiations on all of your concerns."
In response to the government's silence, JDC exec has today made a formal request for a special meeting of BMA Council to authorise a rolling programme of escalated industrial action beginning in early September.
The dispute has led to junior doctors taking part in six strikes this year, including the first all-out stoppages in the history of the NHS.
The BMA's junior doctor leader, Dr Johann Malawana, resigned following the vote to reject the negotiated terms of the contract, which the BMA had recommended.
He had told BMA members the deal was a good one that should be accepted, during meetings ahead of the poll of 54,000 junior doctors and medical students.
Following the vote, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said the contract would be imposed on medics in England.
Russia and Turkey: An 'alliance of misfits'?
It was a gesture that ended a crisis.
The leaders of Russia and Turkey met on Tuesday to shake hands and declare a formal end to an eight-month long war of words and economic sanctions.
But, as Vladimir Putin greeted his Turkish counterpart in the gilded hall of a St. Petersburg palace, I got the distinct impression that Ankara wants this reconciliation the most.
There was the handshake, yes.
But Mr Putin's smile looked thin and he was hardly oozing warmth even by his own restrained standards.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan by contrast talked repeatedly of his "dear friend" Mr Putin - five times, according to one report.
I lost count.
He also pledged that relations with Russia would return not just to their pre-crisis level, but even higher.
The next day one newspaper here described Mr Erdogan as acting as if nothing bad had ever happened.
To me, his enthusiasm implied the opposite.
But a lingering coolness emanating from Mr Putin showed that Russia's leader has forgotten nothing.
In fact, the cause of the crisis was the first thing he mentioned in his opening comments: Turkey's shooting down of a Russian fighter plane on the Syrian border.
Moscow's reaction at the time was furious.
Mr Putin lashed out, accusing Ankara of stabbing Moscow in the back.
The offence was even greater, coming from a supposed friend.
Rebuilding real trust will be hard, perhaps impossible.
Russian public opinion has also turned since November.
For months, state-controlled media conducted a staggering, all-out offensive against Ankara.
All of a sudden, it seemed like Turks were to blame for everything.
Most serious were accusations from top officials that Mr Erdogan's own family has profited from an illegal trade in oil from areas of Syria controlled by the so-called Islamic State.
He's denied that emphatically.
But in St. Petersburg came the official message that it's time to move on.
After all, this meeting only happened because Mr Putin got the apology he demanded from President Erdogan.
Russia could claim a victory of sorts.
For Ankara the benefits of calling a truce are clear.
First and foremost, Erdogan needs all the friends he can get after he was nearly ousted from power last month in a failed coup.
Repeat terror attacks on Turkey have clearly shaken him too.
There is also an economic motive.
Russian sanctions have hit hard - particularly the ban on charter flights, which usually carry several million Russian tourists to the Turkish coast each year.
The number has slumped by almost 90%.
As for Russia, tour operators and charter companies here will certainly be relieved when flights eventually resume.
They're banking on a late-season rush to the Mediterranean.
And even this week, state TV has been predicting cheaper fruit and vegetables once Turkish agricultural imports are permitted again.
"Tourists that way, tomatoes back here," as a report in Vedemosti newspaper phrased it.
But the visit also had additional political value for Moscow.
Ankara is angry with the West for what it considers a weak response to the attempted takeover.
Add to that its long-standing grudge at the snail's pace of talks to join the EU and step in Mr Putin - who is keen to capitalise on the chill and chip away at Turkey's ties with the West.
The Russian leader certainly won bonus points with Ankara for calling in support of the elected authorities after the attempted coup.
Mind you, that's a given for Moscow which has its own deep-seated fear of regime change.
So the summit at this glitzy, seaside palace allowed Russia and Turkey to present what one analyst described to me as an "alliance of misfits": two countries that feel rejected and mistreated by the West, joining forces.
Still, despite the public display of reconciliation, the two still have major differences.
The key one is Syria, where Moscow has recently been casting itself as peacemaker but where Russia and Turkey back opposite sides.
It could be telling that after almost three hours of initial talks, the two presidents told a press conference that they hadn't even touched on the topic.
Turkey's president deliberately avoided answering a question on their differences, while Mr Putin chose to underline them.
There is no clear consensus on where they can seek common ground on Syria.
But after months of open hostility - and given the potential for utter disaster when Nato member Turkey shot down that Russian fighter jet - it is surely better that the two leaders are at least talking again.
Royal Bank of Scotland to disappear for customers outside Scotland
The brand RBS is to be reduced to a back office role, according to the bank's chief executive.
Royal Bank of Scotland will disappear for customers outside Scotland.
Ross McEwan told BBC Scotland that the RBS brand was associated with the bank's global ambitions.
It has retreated from them since it nearly collapsed eight years ago and had to be bailed out.
During that time, brand strategists have used 'RBS' to protect other consumer finance brands.
It was backed with millions of pounds in sponsorship of international sport, from Six Nations rugby to Wimbledon champion Andy Murray.
But now, it has been judged right to let more national brands come to the fore.
Royal Bank of Scotland will be used with Scottish customers, but will not be initialised.
In England and Wales, all RBS references, outside head office and the stock exchange listing, will be changed to NatWest.
The Ulster Bank brand is already used for customers in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
There are other, smaller brands for private banking, which will get more prominence - Coutts, Adam & Co, Drummond, and Holt's Military Bank.
Mr McEwan was interviewed during a tour of customers and staff in Inverness-shire.
He told BBC Scotland: "The RBS brand will end up becoming our investor brand and the one that our staff are employed with, because we are now becoming much more a bank of brands."
As the bank itself became a global brand, RBS became the global brand.
I'm now saying we no longer have global aspirations, we have local aspirations.
Each one of those brands will stand for something quite different in their own communities, and our staff will work with customers under those brands.
RBS had already stated that it would not to continue its Six Nations sponsorship, and it has been raising the profile of different brands in its sports sponsorship.
"The time is right for us to move to the bank of brands, because underneath (we've been asking) how do we focus on making this a better bank for customers?" said the chief executive.
It would have been very cynical three years ago if we'd said we're going to be a great bank for customers and put those brands out there.
But with the work we've been doing, focussing on the customers needs, not our own, I think you're seeing a lot of change.
We can bring those brands back up again, so I think the time is right.
Frankie Dettori reaches 3,000 winners with victory at Newmarket on Predilection
Dettori sprays champagne after a double at Newmarket takes him to 3,000 wins
Jockey Frankie Dettori secured his 3,000th British winner at Newmarket on Friday.
He brought up the landmark with his second winner of the night at his local track - on Predilection, trained by John Gosden.
The 45-year-old Italian is the sixth jockey to reach the landmark in Flat racing.
He follows Sir Gordon Richards, Doug Smith, Lester Piggott, Pat Eddery and Willie Carson.
Three-time champion jockey Dettori, who earlier won on Ghayyar, said: "It's special."
I'm very emotional because my family are here as well
I'm very pleased for it to have happened at Newmarket because this is where I landed 30 years ago.
It's not a big meeting, it's not a Royal Ascot - it's a mundane Friday night with 20,000 people.
I'm relieved and very humble.
Dettori soaks up the cheers as he brings in Predilection after victory
Two jockeys have reached the milestone in jump racing - champion jockey Richard Johnson and retired 20-time champion Sir Anthony McCoy, who had more than 4,300 victories in a record-breaking career.
Lester Piggott, nine-time Derby winner, 4,493 career wins
Frankie is one of the best jockeys of the modern era and it is no surprise he has reached this landmark so few have achieved before him.
He is stylish and strong, but it is his tactical nous that sets him apart from others in the weighing room.
He is a fantastic ambassador for racing, his enthusiasm and charisma have been drawing fans to the sport for years.
I said to Frankie a few weeks ago at Epsom he'd have ridden 6,000 winners if he wasn't just a weekend and big-race jockey!
Seriously though, Frankie's been riding winners in the UK for the best part of 30 years which is great to see.
He's a lively character which is good for British racing but more than that, he's an incredible jockey.
Frankie Dettori celebrated the milestone with a trademark flying dismount
From flying finishes to flying dismounts, Frankie Dettori has been the poster boy of British Flat racing for two decades.
It has been a rollercoaster ride.
Stacks of big-race winners, including his famous 1996 'Magnificent Seven' at Ascot, but he also survived a plane crash and served a drugs ban.
Three years ago he initially struggled when returning from that six-month suspension, but he showed formidable strength of character to defy the doubters and return to his best.
And he may not be done for some time - Dettori has previously said he would like to carry on competing until the age of 50, at least.
Russia's Putin sacks chief of staff Sergei Ivanov
Russian President Vladimir Putin has unexpectedly dismissed his chief of staff Sergei Ivanov.
Mr Ivanov has been part of Mr Putin's trusted inner circle for many years.
The 63-year-old has now been made a special representative for environmental and transport issues.
A statement from the Kremlin said that Mr Putin had "decreed to relieve Ivanov of his duties as head of the Russian presidential administration," but gave no reason.
Mr Ivanov's deputy since 2012, Anton Vaino, has been appointed as his successor.
Mr Vaino, 44, is a former diplomat.
Born in the Estonian capital Tallinn in 1972, he graduated from the prestigious Moscow State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO) and served in the Tokyo embassy.
Later he managed presidential protocol and government staff, the Kremlin website says (in Russian).
On being appointed, he told Mr Putin: "Thank you for your trust."
I think the administration's most important task is to support your activity as head of state in terms of drafting laws and control over how your instructions are implemented.
Mr Putin told a Russian TV station on Friday that Mr Ivanov had asked to leave the post, and recommended that Mr Vaino should replace him.
Do the smiles convince?
This is a move that has mystified Moscow.
Sergei Ivanov has long been one of Vladimir Putin's closest allies and, like him, served in the Soviet security service, the KGB.
As chief of staff he was one of the most powerful men in the country.
In a meeting with President Putin shown on state television both men claimed that the chief of staff was stepping down at his own request.
But despite the smiles for the cameras, few here are convinced - especially now, just before parliamentary elections.
So is this the fall-out from some kind of power struggle?
No-one knows yet.
But the official claim - that a man once touted as a potential president, suddenly wanted to run Russia's environmental policy - has been met with great scepticism.
In remarks to Mr Putin, quoted on the Kremlin website, Mr Ivanov said "it's true that in early 2012 I asked you, in a conversation, to entrust me with this very complicated post, even - you could say - troublesome post, for four years.
Well, it turns out that I've been presidential chief of staff for four years and eight months.
Mr Ivanov took up the post in December 2011.
He served previously as a deputy prime minister and defence minister.
He is a member of the Russian Security Council and a former member of the KGB state security service, like Mr Putin.
In the late 1990s, when Mr Putin was head of the Federal Security Service (FSB), which replaced the KGB, Mr Ivanov was appointed as his deputy.
When Mr Putin came to power, he named Mr Ivanov as one of the five people he trusted most.
It was once thought that Mr Ivanov might become president of Russia after Mr Putin's second term, as a third term for Mr Putin would have been unconstitutional.
But that post was taken by another close Putin ally, Dmitry Medvedev.
Mr Putin became prime minister, before returning to the presidency just three-and-a-half years later.
Criminal Minds star Thomas Gibson sacked after hitting producer
Gibson was involved in a physical altercation on the set of the show in Los Angeles last month.
ABC Studios and CBS Television Studios, which produce the series, announced his dismissal in a joint statement.
Gibson, who played Special Agent Aaron Hotchner, issued an apology on Thursday before his termination was announced.
There were creative differences on the set and a disagreement.
I regret that it occurred," he said in a statement.
Details on how Gibson's character will be written out of the show, which follows a team of FBI agents, is expected to come at a later date, according to the ABC Studios and CBS Television Studios statement.
The 54-year-old, who previously starred on the sitcom Dharma & Greg, had been on the show since its first season in 2005.
"I love Criminal Minds and have put my heart and soul into it for the last twelve years," Gibson said in a statement released on Friday.
I had hoped to see it through to the end, but that won't be possible now.
I would just like to say thank you to the writers, producers, actors, our amazing crew, and, most importantly, the best fans that a show could ever hope to have.
The show is slated to return for its twelfth season on 28 September.
Mystery as fish land in Banff garden
A Banff man has appealed for help in identifying fish that have appeared in his garden in Banff.
Kevin Bain thinks the 75 fish could be sand eels deposited by a waterspout.
Mr Bain, who lives about 500m from the sea, posted footage of the spectacle on Periscope in the hope someone could shed light on the appearance of the two-inch fish.
Queensferry Crossing: Bridge now connected to Fife
The £1.35bn project is now due to be complete by May 2017
Engineers have joined the Queensferry Crossing's north deck and viaduct - meaning the bridge is now connected to Fife.
It is the first of four closures between the "deck fans," which are now nearing completion around each of the bridge's three towers.
The bridge section from Fife is now 600 metres long and weighs 30,000 tonnes.
It has 10,000 tonnes of steel and 20,000 tonnes of concrete and 46 stay-cables.
The £1.35bn project is now due to be complete by May 2017.
Economy Secretary Keith Brown visited the site today and was among the first to walk from the land on to the bridge.
He said: "This is a historic and symbolic moment in the building of the Queensferry Crossing.
We're all witnessing engineering on a truly epic scale on this project, with over 30,000 tonnes of concrete and steel used just to build this part of the bridge.
Despite the massive size and weight of the bridge completing the closure between the viaduct and bridge deck is a delicate operation involving extremely precise tolerances for fit up.
Overall, nearly 79% of the total bridge deck is now in place, the final section of deck is having its concrete deck cast in Rosyth today, meaning all the deck is ready to be lifted into place on the bridge.
Michael Martin, Forth Crossing Bridge Constructors project director said: "The first closure on any bridge project is always a significant milestone.
On this fantastic project, this closure represents leading edge civil engineering.
After installing the last road deck section and connecting it to the expanding North Tower road deck, we then had to close the remaining gap on the north - or landward - side.
This was done by pulling the northern approach viaduct 700 millimetres southwards.
This was a massive and, at the same time, very delicate operation.
Massive because the viaduct is 222 metres long, weighs approximately 6,000 tonnes and had to be pulled up a gradient of about 3%.
Delicate because the tolerances the team were working to were tiny - just a few millimetres either way.
Happily, it all went very well.
Moelfre Bay rescue: Three men are 'lucky to be alive'
Three men are "lucky to be alive" after they were thrown from their fishing boat off Anglesey.
Moelfre RNLI lifeboat station raised the alarm at 13:20 BST on Friday after a crew saw the incident unfold in Moelfre Bay.
The three men struggled to swim to safety while their boat continued under its own power.
"We saw their boat circling close to them and imagined the worst," said Moelfre lifeboat helm Vince Jones.
"Fortunately, by the time we had launched, the strong winds had blown it clear of them," he added.
Two of the men were rescued by a local fishing boat, while the third man, aged 60, was found exhausted and clinging to a buoy without a lifejacket.
They were all taken on board the inshore lifeboat and brought back to the lifeboat station
Mr Jones said: "The three men thrown in the water are lucky to be alive and completely uninjured.
The boat's engine had an emergency kill cord but it had somehow come detached from the person driving the boat when it capsized.
Someone was watching over these guys today.
Pokémon Go a worthy hunt for health and happiness
It is fascinating to see how the world turns.
That teenagers and children do not get outside to play any more, preferring to spend their free time looking at screens, has been the lament of many for the the past decade.
Pokemon Go is getting people off the couch and into some activity.
Screen time was initially limited to the television then video games and more recently smartphones.
So it is great to see that technology and being active outdoors are not mutually exclusive.
I am of course referring to the craze that is Pokémon Go, an app based on the characters first created for video games in the 1990s (it later spawned a cartoon series, playing cards and other spin offs).
Like many pop cultural phenomena it had gone off the boil somewhat before this new game was made available in the US, Australia and New Zealand in early July.
The launch in other countries was then delayed by the massive response, which overloaded servers.
Within days, Pokémon Go had more users than Tinder and nearly as many as Twitter.
So how does it work?
In a nutshell, players on smartphones go out looking for Pokémons, which are tracked with a GPS and, once found, can be 'photographed' (via a screenshot on your phone) or 'captured'.
A generation who played the game when younger have joined the craze, jumping off the couch for the search.
In the US, the game has led to a significant increase in the number of steps taken by the "average" person each day.
Cardiogram, an app for the Apple Watch that tracks 35,000 users, told the Washington Post recently that within two days of the game launching, the number of people it tracked who did 30 minutes of exercise each day jumped from 45 per cent to 53 per cent.
The company does not know who is playing Pokémon Go - it just sees raw data on exercise levels.
Many public health campaigns to get people to "find 30," "get off the couch" and "be active everyday" have fallen on deaf ears because most public health messages are boring and delivered by people who look miserable.
Yet the importance of exercise cannot be understated.
Those who exercise regularly reduce their chances of getting cancer or depression.
Activity helps with weight management, high blood pressure, diabetes and a long list of benefits too long to list here.
But the beauty of Pokémon Go is it gets people outside doing something they enjoy.
Thus you are covering three pillars of health - movement, fresh air and sunshine, and fun.
Some people are even making new friends on the hunt.
As usual there are po-faced killjoys looking for something to complain about.
And yes somebody might walk into a door.
So what?
A breakthrough has occurred.
For while smartphone apps like Fitbit could previously track our activity, they didn't give us a reason to exercise like this game does.
The novelty will wear off and use will subside in due course.
However because of Pokmeon's success there will be more games that combine apps and virtual reality with being active in the real world, helping many people on the hunt to be more active, fitter and healthier.
Read Dr Joe's blogs at www.drjoetoday.com
Simone Biles nails all-around gold in women's gymnastics
Forget the pressure.
Forget the hype.
Simone Biles is immune to all of it.
Dynamic on vault.
Effortless on beam.
Jaw-dropping on floor.
Brilliant all over.
And now, finally, an Olympic champion.
The 19-year-old American gymnast soared to the all-around title on Thursday, putting the gap between herself and the rest of the world on full display under the Olympic spotlight.
Her total of 62.198 was well clear of silver medalist and "Final Five" teammate Aly Raisman and Russian bronze medalist Aliya Mustafina.
United States' Simone Biles performs on the balance beam during the artistic gymnastics women's individual all-around final at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Thursday.
Biles became the fourth straight American woman to win the all-around title and fifth overall while cementing her reputation as the best of her generation and perhaps ever.
She burst into tears when her final total was posted and her long journey to this moment ended.
The achievement puts her in the same league as once-in-a-generation athletes like Michael Phelps who have taken their sports to new heights:
Biles has spent the last three years dominating her sport, winning 15 world championship medals - including 10 gold - with routines so astonishing in their mix of ambition and precision that 1984 Olympic champion Mary Lou Retton called her "the greatest gymnast I've ever seen."
One last test awaited in Brazil, a contest not so much between Biles and the rest of the field but between herself and the burden of oversized expectations.
Anything less than heading back to her family's home in Spring, Texas, with a fistful of golds would be seen as a disappointment.
United States' Simone Biles, left, and Aly Raisman embrace after winning gold and silver respectively for the artistic gymnastics women's individual all-around final at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Thursday, Aug.
Biles earned the first one on Tuesday while serving as the exclamation point to retiring national team coordinator Martha Karolyi's going away party.
While Biles insisted she's never looked ahead during her long run at the top, that's not exactly true.
A portion of her floor exercise routine - the one that includes her signature tumbling pass - is set to Latin music that would fit right at home in the street right outside the Rio Olympic Arena.
It's not a coincidence.
The girl adopted by her grandparents as a toddler and discovered by coach Aimee Boorman's mother during a field trip to the gym where Boorman was coaching has become a force.
She hasn't lost an all-around competition since the summer of 2013, a winning streak that should go for as long as Biles wants it to.
Though Mustafina took a small lead through two rotations, it was a mirage.
Balance beam and floor exercise - where Biles is the defending world champion - lay in wait.
She went back in front with a 15.433 on beam - and capped it with a 15.933 on floor.
Raisman hugged her gently as they awaited the final score - a mere formality - and tears appeared around Biles' glittery red, white and blue eyeliner when the vision she once wrote in a scrapbook became a reality.
Raisman's performance was a bit of revenge from four years ago, when she tied for third but lost the bronze to Mustafina on a tiebreaker.
This time, the 22-year-old team captain the Americans call "grandma" was well ahead.
She blew kisses to the crowd after her floor exercise, overcome by a comeback that at times seemed in doubt.
As for Biles, the 19-year-old's viral tweet from earlier this week now carries a whole new meaning:
Police: 3 victims in serial killer case shot while listening to music in car
Two women and a 12-year-old girl who died in the deadliest attack in Phoenix's first serial killer case in a decade were sitting in a car talking and listening to music when they were shot, according to police reports released Thursday.
Angela Rochelle Liner, Stefanie R. Ellis and Ellis' daughter Maleah were shot on June 12 while the car was parked in a driveway, authorities said.
The gunman fired as many as eight shots from a handgun while standing on the passenger side of the car then fled in another vehicle, the report states.
Police say the triple killing doesn't appear to have been the result of a robbery because the attacker didn't take purses or $2,900 in the possession of one of the adult victims.
Phoenix police spokesman Sgt. Jonathan Howard said the shooting prompted investigators to look at whether it was tied to four earlier attacks.
In all, seven people have been killed and two others wounded in nine attacks in two predominantly Hispanic neighborhoods over a four-month period.
"It's occurring within a residential area in front of a home," Howard said to CBS affiliate KPHO earlier this month.
The suspect is believed to have used several vehicles, including as a late-1990s brown Nissan, a late-1990s black BMW and a white Cadillac or Lincoln.
Investigators have declined to reveal the evidence that led them to conclude the attacks are related and committed by the same killer.
Ellis, 33, was hospitalized for her injuries and later died.
Liner, 31, and Ellis' daughter Maleah died at the scene.
A witness told police that it wasn't unusual for them to sit in a parked car listening to music.
Authorities also released a police report on a shooting that targeted an unoccupied pickup truck just a half-hour before the triple killing and is believed to have been the work of the serial killer.
Investigators found bullet casings and recovered a bullet from a seat and bullet fragments from the engine compartment.
Mother of 6-year-old with microcephaly: "It gets better"
Like most six-year-olds, Edmund Picciuto loves singing, toys and, of course, his mother.
But unlike most of his peers, Edmund has microcephaly, the result of a genetic disorder his mom Elizabeth Picciuto didn't know about while pregnant.
When he first came home my initial thought was, I can't do this.
I can't do this.
I didn't sign up for this.
Which is not true at all -- of course you sign up for it," she said.
She and her husband, Vincent, were told Edmund might never recognize them, and that he might not even survive.
Some doctors went as far as suggesting he be institutionalized.
"My first response was 'I didn't think people did that anymore,'" Picciuto explained.
Edmund walks with the help of a walker.
Edmund didn't sit up or crawl until he was three, and he still doesn't talk.
But he's slowly meeting some milestones.
He's walking with help, and riding a bike.
He also loves playing with his two brothers, and singing.
Elizabeth demonstrates the sign language Edmund made up for "please sing to me."
"We're teaching him sign language," Picciuto told CBS News.
But it's not just typical sign language -- she says Edmund has invented some of his own signs.
Microcephaly can arise from a number of different conditions: genetic ones like Edmund's, and infections during pregnancy from viruses like measles and Zika.
Symptoms and prognosis can vary widely.
It's too early to tell how it will affect the lives of those infected with Zika.
Picciuto remembers the emotional toll of an uncertain future.
I kept saying, what's going to happen?
What's going to happen?
And she still doesn't really know.
I actually haven't asked for a prognosis in forever, because I don't expect anyone to really be able to tell me.
But Picciuto has hopeful advice for the mothers of babies with birth defects from Zika.
It gets better.
You know it will get better for you.
You will love your child, and your child will love you.
Heavy rain, flooding prompts rescues in Louisiana, Mississippi
Heavy rain and widespread flooding in Louisiana lead the governor to declare a state of emergency on Friday, with more rain expected over the state through Saturday.
Numerous rivers in southeast Louisiana and southern Mississippi were overflowing their banks and threatening widespread flooding after extreme rainfall, the National Weather Service reported.
Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards said state officials are in constant contact with local officials, and assistance is already on the move to affected parishes.
Mike Steele, a spokesman for the Governor's Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness, said requests were coming in for high-water vehicles, boats and sandbags.
Steele said Tangipahoa Parish alone requested tens of thousands of sandbags.
A flood watch remains in effect until Saturday across most of south Louisiana.
The weather service said in a statement that an additional 3 to 5 inches could fall over the area.
In south Alabama, a flood watch was in effect Friday as rain continued in the Mobile area.
The Comite River near Baton Rouge and Amite River near Denham Springs, both in Louisiana, were predicted to set record crests over the weekend.
Forecaster Alek Krautmann said both rivers could flood many houses in suburban areas near Baton Rouge.
He also said that flooding downstream in Ascension Parish is a threat, as those swollen rivers will be slow to drain into Lake Maurepas.
The Tickfaw River, just south of the Mississippi state line in Liverpool, Louisiana, was already at the highest level ever recorded at 9 a.m. Friday.
Rescuers were still plucking people from floodwaters in Amite and Wilkinson counties in southwest Mississippi.
Leroy Hansford, his wife and stepson were among those rescued earlier Friday near Gloster.
Hansford, 62, says waters from Beaver Creek, which is normally more than 400 feet away from his house, rose quickly overnight.
He said another stepson who lives nearby alerted him.
"We woke up and the water kept on coming," Hansford said.
It came up to my waist.
His wife told Hansford that it's the highest she's seen the creek in the 48 years she's lived there.
Hansford said he and his family members all have disabilities, and he's the only one who can swim.
Hansford said emergency workers rescued all three in a large military-style truck and took them to the fire station in Gloster, where they were sheltering Friday.
Krautmann says flooding is "quickly becoming widespread" as heavy rains continue, saying officials are considering evacuation orders.
Krautmann says one observer near Livingston reported 13.75 inches of rain from midnight to Friday morning.
Krautmann said the ground was heavily saturated by rainfall since Wednesday.
Heavy rain and street flooding prompted the rescue of residents from their homes in Tangipahoa Parish and the cancellation of classes in five school districts, authorities said.
CBS affiliate WWL reports that an alderwoman in Tangipahoa said 200 homes flooded.
Residents had been evacuated to two churches but both are now flooding.
Parish President Robby Miller said authorities rescued 72 people and seven pets stranded by high water.
Shelters have been opened in the town of Amite and the city of Hammond to house those who were evacuated.
"They will be allowed to return home once the water starts to recede," he said.
In the Tangipahoa Parish city of Hammond, close to two dozen streets were closed because of high water, and sandbags were made available for pickup by residents hoping to keep water out of homes and businesses.
"The last major flood we had was in March," said city administrator Lacy Landrum.
This one is on track to be a similar event.
In Mississippi, Harrison County Emergency Manager Rupert Lacy said steady rain continued on the Gulf Coast.
He said a handful of houses were reported as flooded Thursday, but none have been reported so far Friday.
Keith Townson, manager of Shopper Value Foods in Amite, has lived in the area for 40 years.
"I've seen water in some places I have never seen before," Townson said, "and it's still coming down."
Mahaj Brown, 6, "riddled with bullets," survives Philadelphia shooting
Police say a 6-year-old boy has been shot in Philadelphia, marking the second shooting of a 6-year-old in the city this week.
The child's grandparents identified him to CBS Philadelphia as Mahaj Brown.
The grandparents say Brown suffered multiple gunshot wounds, including in his groin, leg, arm and abdomen, but was awake when he was transported to the hospital.
"He just took a lot, his little body was riddled with bullets," his grandmother Delores Melendez tells the station.
I just can't believe it.
The boy is listed in critical condition at a hospital and has undergone several surgeries.
Family tells the station he is expected to recover.
He was set to start first grade at a local elementary school.
Brown was among four people shot in the Germantown section.
Also shot were three men: two 29-year-olds and one 32-year old.
One of the 29-year-old men was reported in critical condition; the other two victims were listed in stable condition, according to CBS Philadelphia.
The child was found shot in the front seat of a car along with the 29-year-old in critical condition, the station reports.
The other two victims were not in the car and police are investigating whether any of the wounded men could be a shooter.
Investigators tells CBS Philadelphia it appears there was crossfire between multiple gunmen.
Assault weapon-style shell casings, traced to different assault style weapons, littered the scene.
It appears that this was definitely an ongoing battle.
There were casings in the street, on both sides of the sidewalk.
So it appears that there were multiple armed combatants out here and that they were actively engaged," Philadelphia police Captain Anthony Ginaldi told the station.
Multiple houses and vehicles in the area were also struck.
No arrests have been made and police are reportedly reviewing surveillance video.
Another 6-year-old, a girl, was hit in her arm by a stray bullet Tuesday while playing in front of her home in the West Oak Lane neighborhood.
She is recovering, and police are still searching for a suspect.
Why we need Simone, Gabby and Laurie
That's what I call this year's Women's Olympic Gymnastics Team and for more reasons than one.
First, I have been to every Summer Olympics since 1984 and the USA has never been so dominant.
And second: This team features three gymnasts, Simone Biles, Gabby Douglas and Lauren "Laurie" Hernandez, who have been inspiring so many young girls of color.
The make-up of this team, rounded out by Aly Raisman, who is Jewish, and Madison Kocian, who is Catholic, is making everyone proud.
This team looks, finally, like America.
It also has solidified the black and Latina female presence at the top of this sport.
For the past four years, the number one female gymnast has been African-American.
Last year, Simone and Gabby were #1 and #2.
This is powerful.
Last Olympics, Gabby Douglas was a surprise Olympic champion, and America cheered.
Now the world has been able to witness the incredible performances of three-time World Champion Simone Biles, Douglas and Laurie Hernandez delivering the unexpected, yet masterful gymnastics routines.
On Thursday, Simone became the fourth straight American to win gold in the women's individual all-around event.
And teammate Aly Raisman earned silver.
We are witnessing the top of the sport, but it does not look like this at gymnastics classes across the country.
Simone, Gabby and Laurie all took the same path as Aly and Madison to make the Olympic team.
They are the "Final Five" because the next Olympic gymnastics team will only have four gymnasts on the team, and this is Marta Karolyi's last year coaching.
But the reality is that gymnastics is an expensive sport, and gymnasts primarily train in private gymnastics clubs that are maintained by parents paying the cost of the training, facility, travel, uniforms, competition fees, hotel fees (for the coaches and their gymnasts and families) and the list goes on.
Most of these gymnastics clubs are located in affluent suburban neighborhoods that can support the business.
These clubs are where the gymnasts get all of their training, and it's a costly and long-term commitment for the gymnasts' families.
Aimee Boorman, coach of Simone Biles, and Maggie Haney, coach of Laurie Hernandez, have both coached their athletes since they started in gymnastics.
We must bring more affordable and accessible gymnastics training to the communities of countless young girls who are inspired by Simone, Gabby and Laurie.
I founded my gymnastics foundation 20 years ago.
At my organizations, we have provided free and low-cost gymnastics, based in Harlem, for over 15,000 urban youth (primarily black and Hispanic) and have trained national and international champions.
In September, we will be expanding to Detroit (my hometown) to provide high quality gymnastics to the youth that deserve the opportunity to learn and benefit from this great Olympic sport.
Gymnastics develops strength, flexibility and coordination for the body and hard work, discipline and determination for the mind.
This combination provides life-long benefits for good health, success in school and work.
It is the inspiration of this team that will send thousands of young girls to take gymnastics and that is great.
To participate in sport is so important, especially for girls.
This is such an exciting time.
Thank you Simone, Aly, Laurie, Gabby and Madison for that serious showcase of "Girl Power" in winning the Olympic team gold and for motivating so many young girls of all backgrounds to begin their path to be healthy, strong and successful young women.
Junior doctors set to mount further strikes after rejecting Jeremy Hunt's proposal
Ministers had hoped to end the dispute over the changes by agreeing to a reformed contract with British Medical Association officials, but 58 per cent of the 37,000 junior doctors who took part in a ballot had rejected it.
In July, Mr Hunt revealed plans to impose the contract saying the NHS was in "no man's land" and any further delay would be damaging for staff and patients.
The first junior doctors are moved onto the new contract, which includes changes to overnight and weekend working practices to improve care at unsociable hours.
Dr Ellen McCourt, the BMA's junior doctors" committee chair, said in a statement last night: "Junior doctors still have serious concerns about the proposed contract, particularly that it will fuel the current workforce crisis, and that it fails to treat all doctors fairly."
With just eight weeks before the first group of doctors are moved onto the new contract, progress needs to be made and time is running out.
Efforts by the BMA to resolve the dispute through talks have been met with an unwillingness to engage and, at times, deafening silence from the government.
This is despite a promise from Jeremy Hunt just last month that his door is always open.
"Jeremy Hunt needs to act now, lift the imposition and address junior doctors" concerns.
If he does not then junior doctors are clear that they are prepared to take further industrial action.
The last strike at the end of April saw the postponement of nearly 13,000 routine operations and 100,000 appointments as nurses and consultants were drafted in to provide cover for doctors on the picket line.
Ministers had hoped to end the dispute over the changes by agreeing to a reformed contract with British Medical Association officials.
The BMA wants better weekend pay for the 54,000 junior doctors who would be subject of the contract.
Daniel Mortimer, chief executive of NHS Employers, called on junior doctors not to go ahead with any strikes.
Mr Mortimer said: "Industrial action achieves little or nothing, but places pressure on already stretched teams and services and causes worry, distress and disruption for patients, carers and their families."
Over the last two months we have been talking with the Junior Doctors Committee and have, along with the Department of Health and others, responded positively to their concerns regarding the Guardian Role and Whistleblowing.
Employers were hopeful that the continued positive engagement on other important topics - such as deployment, flexibility in training, additional training for those returning from career breaks, costs of training, mutual recognition of syllabus, study leave and the gender pay gap in medicine - were a sign of how serious employers, Health Education England and the Department of Health were about honouring the agreements reached with the BMA in November, February and May.
The £2-a-day drug that can cut heart attack threat
Thousands of heart attack patients are to benefit from a £2-a-day drug, after officials recommended it be given to more people for longer.
Anti-clotting drug ticagrelor slashes the risk of repeat attacks for people with heart disease.
The drug is already given for 12 months after a heart attack, reducing the risk of a stroke or another attack.
NHS watchdog NICE has advised that it should be given to people for four years, to further reduce the risk of cardiovascular problems.
But now NHS watchdog NICE has advised that it should be given to people for four years, to further reduce the risk of cardiovascular problems.
Some 140,000 people have a heart attack in England every year, and a quarter of these go on to have another attack or a stroke.
Heart attacks and strokes are caused by the build-up of fatty material in artery walls to form a plaque.
If the plaque breaks apart it can cause a blood clot, blocking blood to the heart causing a heart attack.
And if the clot dislodges it can travel in the blood stream and block blood flow to the brain, causing a stroke.
People who have already have one attack are at a higher risk of having another.
Ticagrelor, which is made by UK firm AstraZeneca and sold under the trade name Brilique, reduces this risk by making clots less likely.
The draft NICE guidance, published today, recommends that people be given 90 mg of ticagrelor for 12 months, followed by 60mg along with aspirin twice a day for another three years.
Professor Carole Longson, director at the NICE health technology evaluation centre, said: "Despite the availability of effective secondary prevention treatments, as many as a quarter of people who have had a heart attack go on to have another heart attack or stroke - often with devastating consequences."
Fear of a recurrence can have a significant negative impact on a person's quality of life.
The evidence shows that ticagrelor, in combination with aspirin, is effective at reducing the risk of further heart attacks and strokes in people who have already had a heart attack.
In provisionally recommending ticagrelor we are pleased to be able to increase the treatment options available to the many thousands of people who stand to benefit from it.
Because information on the efficacy and safety of ticagrelor - particularly the risk of bleeding - beyond three years is limited, the draft guidance does not recommend treatment with it beyond that period.
PC culture let vote fraud in Muslim areas flourish
Ex-Tower Hamlets mayor Lutfur Rahman was removed from office last year for corruption, prompting the government report
A culture of political correctness has led to a blind eye being turned to widespread voting fraud in Muslim communities, a devastating government report reveals today.
Ex-Cabinet minister Sir Eric Pickles lambasts the police, election watchdogs and town halls for ignoring evidence of electoral abuse because of "over-sensitivities about ethnicity and religion."
The former communities secretary, now the anti-corruption tsar, said the intimidation of voters on religious grounds was so bad that police should be allowed to put cordons outside polling stations to protect frightened voters.
He recommends that voters should have to take ID to prove who they are when they vote.
Currently, a voter merely has to state their name and address.
The report even suggests putting indelible ink on a person's fingers as they cast their ballot to prevent anyone being able to vote twice.
Greater protection should be given to whistleblowers, Sir Eric says.
He calls for the Press to be given greater access to council papers and decisions taken by unofficial committees or working groups.
"This is not solely to protect against electoral fraud, but to protect local government from the broader culture of corruption and financial fraud that goes hand in hand with it," he said.
The report was ordered by Downing Street in the wake of the Tower Hamlets voting scandal in East London.
Last year a special election court ruled the sitting mayor, Lutfur Rahman, should be removed from office following a litany of corrupt and illegal practices.
The court found Rahman "cynically perverted" the religious feeling of his Muslim community and silenced his critics with accusations of racism and Islamophobia.
Rahman, it was said, "ran his campaign on the basis that it was the religious duty of faithful Muslims to vote for him."
Up to 300 votes were dubious or the result of personation, where a person votes while posing as someone else.
Sir Eric said there was evidence of fraud across the country.
He voiced particular alarm about postal voting fraud - in which senior members of the Muslim community were said to have exerted pressure on people to vote for a candidate of their choosing.
Sir Eric, pictured, made several recommendations to clean up the voting system including bringing your ID to prove who you are
His report says: "Evidence was presented of pressure being put on vulnerable members of some ethnic minority communities, particularly women and young people, to vote according to the will of the elders, especially in communities of Pakistani and Bangladeshi background.
"There were concerns that... state institutions had turned a blind eye to such behaviour because of "politically correct" over-sensitivities about ethnicity and religion."
Sir Eric made 50 recommendations to clean up the system, including banning political activists from handling postal ballot papers to stop "vote harvesting."
The report, being considered by Theresa May, also calls for tougher checks on registration to prevent the electoral register being used for immigration and benefit fraud.
Consider the options for requiring voters to produce ID before voting.
Use indelible ink on a person's fingers once they cast their ballot to prevent anyone voting twice.
Carry out systematic checks on a person's nationality to ensure they are eligible to vote.
Put a three-year limit on requests for an automatic postal vote.
Ban political campaigners and activists from handling completed postal votes and postal vote envelopes.
Give police powers to set up cordons around polling stations.
Change the law to make it easier to charge people with intimidation under the Representation of the People Act 1983.
Make it illegal to take pictures in polling stations.
Make it a requirement that only English is to be used in polling stations (except in Wales).
Strengthen training to ensure staff enforce the rule that voters go to the booth alone.
Sir Eric savages the Metropolitan Police, saying it is "astonishing" that no criminal charges were brought after the Tower Hamlets case.
"The election court disqualified Lutfur Rahman and his agent for a litany of corrupt and illegal practices," he said.
He was found guilty beyond reasonable doubt - to a criminal standard of proof - on a series of grounds.
He also criticises the ineffectual "tick-box inspections" of town hall electoral registration departments.
Sir Eric said: "Last year's court ruling in Tower Hamlets was a wake-up call.
Our nation has a proud heritage as the mother of parliaments, yet the worrying and covert spread of electoral fraud and state of denial by some bodies threatens that good reputation.
Crazy for Kate's cyclist lookalike and other celeb doppelgangers of Rio Olympians
Fans of the Rio 2016 Olympics this week have gone wild for French cyclist Pauline Ferrand-Prevot, who has proven an impressive lookalike for the Duchess of Cambridge.
But the 24-year-old Olympian is far from the only athlete out fighting for gold this summer that boasts their own celebrity doppelganger - at least not according to social media.
So, in honor of the Rio Games and all the famous faces crossing our screens at the moment, FEMAIL have compiled a list of Olympians who bear more than a passing resemblance with Hollywood celebs.
The hunter and the wolf: U.S. Men's Archery Team member Brady Ellison, left, has been compared to Leonardo DiCaprio since he was a kid
Aside from Kate's doppelganger on the cycling track, many people online have been quick to point out how a certain archer could be the twin of A-lister Leonardo DiCaprio.
U.S. Men's Archery Team member Brady Ellison has caused a storm on Twitter after images of him looking eerily similar to the Wolf of Wall Street star surfaced.
And in fact, the archer became aware of the social media frenzy and admitted that he has been hearing that he looks like Leo since he was a kid.
'I personally don't see a huge resemblance, maybe besides the facial hair,' Brady told Huffington Post.
'He is a good-looking dude so I guess it's a compliment.'
One of the most popular comparisons from London 2012 is undoubtedly going to be pointed out even more this year: the striking likeness between British long jumper Greg Rutherford and popular actor Neil Patrick Harris.
Russian gymnast Aliya Mustafina, with her large, expressive eyes, has been said to be a dead ringer for Cuban-American singer Gloria Estefan.
And over in the pool, South African swimmer Cameron van der Burgh has been getting compared to Glee star Matthew Morrison for years now.
Changing it up: This user reckons that Nathan is an 'athletic version' of the Inception actor
Another long-running comparison has been between tennis star Rafael Nadal and actor Josh Hartnett who boast a similar heavy brow and lips.
Silver medal swimmer Russia's Yulia Efimova boasts more than just the same sunkissed skin and blonde hair as actress Annalynne McCord, while Team USA's Nathan Adrian has been said by fans to resemble an 'athletic version of Joseph Gorgon Levitt.'
Tough women: Soccer star Hope Solo, left, and Dexter actress Jennifer Carpenter, right, have similar face shapes and eyes
Not the only one: One Twitter user was very pleased that others also saw the similaritiest
Floating a theory: According to this user, perhaps there is a reason behind the pair's similar looks
One Twitter user took to the site recently to declare her happiness that 'the rest of the internet thinks that Hope Solo and Jennifer Carpenter are actually identical.'
Indeed, the USA soccer star and the Dexter actress share incredibly similar face shapes and eyes.
Other popular comparisons have included Kerri Walsh-Jennings and her smile that is near-identical to that of actress Laura Linney, as well as gold medal-winning gymnast Gabby Douglas, who boasts her own beautifully broad smile that matches that of Bring It On star Gabrielle Union.
CBC Olympics commentator apologizes for saying Chinese swimmer 'died like a pig'
Byron MacDonald's analysis of 14-year-old Ai Yanhan's fourth place finish at the women's 4x200m freestyle relay outraged viewers of CBC's live Olympic coverage on Wednesday
Canadian broadcaster CBC has been forced to apologize after one of its commentators said a 14-year-old female Chinese swimmer 'went out like stink' and 'died like a pig' during a race.
Commentator Byron MacDonald thought his mic was turned off when he started to dispense some of his own opinions at the end of the women's 4x200m freestyle relay final.
MacDonald, who was brought on board CBC's commentary team to provide 'color' could be heard saying: 'That little 14-year-old from China dropped the ball, baby'.
Too excited, went out like stink, died like a pig.
Thanks for that.
Chinese swimmer Ai Yanhan, 14, swam the second leg of the relay in 1:57.79 - 1.61 seconds slower than Canada's Taylor Ruck, allowing the Canadians to close the gap on China.
Viewers across Canada were quick to react online after being shocked by the tone and the language used
Emmett Macfarlane tweeted, "Did the CBC announcer just say the 14-year-old swimmer from China 'died like a pig'"????
The idiot didn't realize they were still on the air.'
Ai Yanhan of China in the Women's 4 x 200m Freestyle Relay Final was described as: 'That little 14-year-old from China dropped the ball, baby.'
Criticism on Twitter came thick and fast against Byron MacDonald with many calling him out
Twitter users did not hold back when the heard how insensitive Byron Macdonlad was being
Another twitter user, Sarah Paradis, wrote: 'Wow #ByronMacDonald.
You represent the CBC and Canada and make us all sound like a bunch of racists. #disgusted.
Soon after, Scott Russel who was hosting CBC's broadcast apologized on-air for MacDonald's comment, saying: 'We apologize the comment on a swim performance made it to air.'
It was an unfortunate choice of words, we're sorry it happened.'
CBC ended up apologizing more than 90 times to people who had tweeted in response to the remark
Fellow commentator, Scott Russel, had to make an apology on MacDonald's behalf
CBC then copied and pasted their apology to more than 90 other twitter users who complained about MacDonald's comments
The network was also quick to apologize and released a statement.
We sincerely regret that these statements were made, and that they were allowed to go to air.
We moved quickly last night to apologize to our viewers on-air and to our followers on Social media.
To be clear, Byron's comments were related to the swimmer's performance, not to her as an individual.
That said, they were inappropriate and an unfortunate choice of words and Byron is very sorry for what he said.
On Thursday afternoon, MacDonald apologized on-air and attempted to qualify his remark by stating he didn't mean for it to be construed as a personal attack.
'I would like to take a moment to apologize for a comment that I made last night after the women's relay,' he said on CBC's Olympic broadcast.'
'I was referring to a swimmer's performance, and not to them as a person.'
'Needless to say, there was no disrespect intended and I'm very sorry.'
Primark shopper outraged at woman who brazenly tried on underwear in the middle of the shop
Shoppers didn't know where to look when a woman stripped off to try on knickers on the shop floor in the middle of a Primark.
To make it even worse, she sized up how she looked in them, peeled them off and put them back on the shelf.
She carried on browsing and eventually tried on four pairs of underwear at the store in Bouverie Place shopping centre, Folkestone.
The Primark store in Bouverie Place shopping centre, Folkestone, where the woman tried on knickers before putting them back on the shelf
A mother-of-two, Jenny Davidson, who was in the shop at the time, said after trying on the underwear the mystery woman 'got dressed again and walked out of the store without buying anything.'
She said: 'People couldn't believe what they were seeing.'
Standing in the middle of the shop floor, she took a pair of knickers from the display, stripped off her own tights and pants and put them on.
'She didn't try to find anywhere discreet to do it - she just stood there, bold as brass.'
'Everyone was staring as she took the knickers off again and obviously didn't like them because she put them back on the shelf.'
She did the same with three more pairs before finally deciding there was nothing she liked and she got dressed again and walked out.
'She didn't seem to care who was watching - or think about the person who would eventually buy the knickers she'd been trying on.'
Ms Davidson, 33, who lives in the Kent town, said: 'How disgusting to think someone is going to take home knickers that another person has been wearing and they haven't been cleaned.'
The incident happened on Tuesday afternoon.
Ms Davidson added: 'I gather the staff apparently tried to remove the garments from sale after she had left - which is just as well.'
'I'd hate to get home with a new pair of knickers and find another woman had put them on and taken them off again, and they hadn't been washed.'
A Primark spokesman said: 'Primark is aware of an incident which took place in our Folkestone store on Tuesday August 9.'
All the product in question has been removed from sale.
How to defend yourself from gun attacks using Krav Maga
It's a dangerous world out there, but this video from Dailymail.com might help make it a little safer for you.
We spoke to Rhon Mizrachi, New York-based grandmaster of the Krav Maga Federation, to find out how to deal with gun-toting muggers at close range.
Whether you're approached from in front or behind, this video will show you how to turn the tables on your mugger.
If approached from behind, Mizrachi says, the first thing to do is turn around, so that you can see your attacker and 'clear the line of fire'.
You then grasp the gun between your forearm and shoulder before hitting them in the face with your free elbow.
A knee to the groin follows, and while the attacker doubles up in pain, you twist the gun from his hands, smack him in the face with the barrel and back up, keeping the weapon trained on him.
For gunmen approaching from the front, it's a similar technique - get your body out of the line of fire, grab the gun and twist it around so the villain can't fire.
At the same time, put weight on the gun and punch the attacker in the chest, then twist the gun from his grip before backing up and pointing it at him.
Sounds tricky?
Check the video to see exactly how Mizrachi does it.
But remember that the safest way out of any mugging - if you're not a Krav Maga grandmaster - is to hand over your cash.
Traveller Ian Wright scrapes his tongue along Europe's dirtiest places for travel guide
A British traveller has put his immune system and gag reflex to a serious test - by licking some of the dirtiest and disgusting places in Europe.
Presenter and travel writer Ian Wright, 51, from Suffolk, scraped his tongue along a Euro note, a Piccadilly Circus hand rail, a train toilet's flush button and a Russian public telephone to prove the strength of his immune system.
Before licking each object, he used a luminometer to show himself, and us, just what he was getting in to.
But the experiment, which has be made into a film called The Lickhiker's Guide to Inner Strength, threw up some surprising results.
The thought of licking a train's flush button used by thousands of other may be utterly repellent, but in fact there are more bad bacteria in a kitchen sink.
All the way along his trip through Europe, Mr Wright spoke to doctors and medical professionals about boosting gut bacteria and about his own health.
Fortunately, nothing he licked left him with anything more than a bad taste in his mouth.
Mr Wright became known for testing the durability of his gut by travelling around the world and eating weird and wonderful things.
From public handrails in train stations to a toilet flush button the task definitely tested his immune system
In the movie made about it he said: 'Ever since I was a kid I have been fairly carefree with my health and I've put all sorts of things in my mouth from soil, eating worms and muddy water.'
He certainly proved his reputation during the film.
The only thing he turned down was a filthy Russian public toilet.
His sample swab showed a luminometer count of over 4000 units.
By comparison, freshly washed hands should come in under 60.
But there was one Russian public toilet he refused to lick after his luminometer count was over 4000 units, when freshly washed hands are less than 60
Mr Wright and Finnish dairy producer Valio have produced the traveller's film called The Lickhiker's Guide to Inner Strength which shows the bacteria count in different place like in the bathroom
He said in the film: 'That is close to one of the worst things I have smelled in a toilet.'
There's nothing more dirty than that!
I'm not going to lick anything because it's disgusting in there.
The Lickhiker's Guide to Inner Strength was produced in conjunction with Finnish dairy producer Valio.
The company provided Mr Wright with Valio Gefilus, which contain lactic acid bacteria as well as vitamins C and D to help boost people's gut bacteria and immune systems.
Valio's Senior Vice President of Snacks, Juice and New Categories Niko Vuorenmaa said: 'We really wanted to offer consumers something new.
Something that would be fascinating to watch and at the same time explain the benefits of probiotics.
We did a lot of crazy brainstorming that ended in the idea "let's call Ian."
They claim the interest in gut health is becoming a global phenomenon
Instead of just talking about the products, we wanted to put them into a bigger context - the good and bad bacteria in our everyday environment, the importance of gut health and how it's linked to the immune system.
Growing interest in gut health is a global phenomenon and with the documentary we could provide consumers with more information about it in an interesting way.
I also think the film shows we have a great sense of humour!
Tom Hakala, who directed the film, added: 'Let's put it this way - I would have lost my respect for Ian if he had licked some of the things I asked him to, like the disgusting Russian toilet that's shown in the film.'
Naturally some things were easier to get Ian to lick, some were pretty tough.
I'm glad we got some of those dirty licks caught on tape.'
In a survey conducted in 2015 by Valio, 84 per cent of the respondents associated lactic acid bacteria specifically with the well-being of the stomach and gut and 58 per cent said they use at least occasionally products containing added lactic acid bacteria.
Family of yobs destroyed Saltash, Cornwall council house ahead of eviction
A family of yobs left their council house with £50,000 worth of damage after they were evicted for terrorising their neighbours.
Tanya Skeldon and her partner Shaun Trebilcock have been kicked out of the property in Saltash, Cornwall, after a long list of complaints against them.
After they were forcibly removed from the property, shocked housing associations officers found the property in a state of disrepair.
The walls were left with gaping holes, floorboards were ripped up, rubbish was strewn over the floor and graffiti was daubed on the walls.
The family have now been moved on and are believed to be living in a private accomodation
Donna McEvoy, housing manager at Cornwall Housing, said she feared it might be beyond saving.
She said: 'It's been an absolute nightmare for people down here and I don't think people should have to live like that.
There are a lot of things to weigh up because this property will probably be known by the not-so-nice element of Cornwall.
This family are notorious and their name is notorious.
The couple had three sons who lived at the property intermittently and police say the reign of terror the family inflicted included fighting in the street with baseball bats, intimidating nearby residents, drug use, drug dealing and excessive shouting, arguing and swearing.
Skeldon, 47, whose name was on the tenancy, was given an antisocial behaviour order in June.
Old rubbish was found in a number of the rooms of the house, which may be demolished
Floor boards had been pulled up in the property, from which drugs had been dealt in the past
Neighbours say they were seen fighting in the street and police were regularly called
Cornwall Housing evicted her and her partner forcefully from the property this week after giving them an extended period of 11 weeks to move on voluntarily.
The eviction was hailed by relieved neighbours who said their lives had been made a living hell.
One said: 'They didn't care about anybody.'
We lived next to them for 20 years and it's always been bad.
The amount of times we've seen the police down here is unbelievable.
'This morning, we couldn't sleep.'
We got up because it was so quiet here - we're not used to that!
It's going to be lovely now that they're finally gone.
Adam Fitzpatrick, Cornwall Housing's neighbourhood enforcement manager, said the family failed to cooperate with the local authority.
The family have lived in the house for 20 years, with police regularly called to the property
Rubbish and old toys have been thrown down the overgrown side of the council house
He added: 'It is a shame that the tenant failed to accept any responsibility for the behaviour of her and her family as eviction is always the last course of action that Cornwall Housing considers.
This was a very difficult case as the behaviour was extreme and their actions must have been terrifying for her neighbours to witness.
I appreciate all the work that has been put in by my team, Devon and Cornwall Police and members of the community who bravely came forward to give us information.
I hope that this development will give some comfort to the neighbours and sends out a message that antisocial behaviour will not be tolerated.
Mr Fitzpatrick said that the three sons had all lived at the property at different times but said they were all in their 20s.
A dirty mattress left on the floor of one of the bedrooms in the house after the eviction
Housing workers will now have to clear away the piles of rubbish which surround the house
In 2014, police raided the property and found more than 70g in cannabis as well as scales, paraphernalia and £1,700 in cash.
Skeldon was fined after pleading guilty to possession of a Class B drug with intent to supply.
She claimed the money was going towards a headstone for her son, Lee Skeldon, who died in a car crash in 2013.
After being made homeless, it is understood that Tanya and her partner are now living in private housing in Plymouth.
The walls of many of the house's rooms had graffiti scrawled across them.
Police say they will seek to evict tenants who flout the rules of their tenancies
Angela Crow, of Devon and Cornwall Police, said the eviction sent a clear warning to other tenants who continue to flout the rules.
'This sends out to those who feel that they can behave without recrimination, as well as those blighted by such behaviour,' she said.
Criminal and antisocial behaviour will never be tolerated by Devon and Cornwall Police, who will continue to work with partners to protect our communities.
Tourists in Portugal are left terrified as a low-flying military jet flies skims beach
Tourists sun worshipping in Aveiro, Portugal, had the shock of their lives
A Portuguese air force P-3C Orion plane swooped in incredibly low
The air force said it was on a training flight but insisted no risk to safety
This is the moment terrified tourists start to panic as a low-flying jet swooped down over a packed beach.
Dramatic footage showed the military plane almost coming within touching distance of sunseekers on the stretch of sand in Aveiro, northern Portugal.
Holidaymakers rose to their feet as they became understandably concerned about the noise from the jet engines without being able to see at first what was coming their way through the clouds.
The incident happened in Costa Nova near Aveiro yesterday afternoon.
Daniel Fernandes, one of several holidaymakers who posted videos of the dramatic fly-by onto social media, said: 'It passed really low twice and there was a point when it looked like it was going to crash.'
Nuno Arroja added: 'I was surfing and swear it felt like the plane was going to fall on top of me.'
Tourists on the beach at Aveiro were terrified when the plane appeared out of the murk and flew at an incredibly low altitude
The Portuguese Air Force said today the pilot of the P-3C Orion plane was on a training flight to identify fishing boats off the coast and had to drop so low because it was the only way of checking them.
He said the jet had flown slightly lower than normal because of poor visibility caused by the smoke from nearby wildfires, but the air force insisted no-one's safety had been compromised.
Wildfires have devastated parts of mainland Portugal this summer as well as killing four people on the island of Madeira.
The Portuguese air force said today the pilot had to fly low because of the conditions - thick fog and smoke from wildfires - which obscured his visibility
The plane was on a training flight and the pilot was being asked to identify fishing boats as part of the exercise
London schoolgirl who joined ISIL killed in Syria
Kadiza Sultana, one of three British schoolgirls who left London last year to join ISIL, has reportedly died in Syria.
Attorney Tasnime Akunjee said her family learned of her death in Raqqa, Syria, a few weeks ago.
She was believed to have been killed by a Russian air strike in Raqqa, the group's stronghold in the country, ITV News reported on Thursday.
Sultana was 17 years old and, according to her family, died just as she was making plans to flee the war-torn country and return to Britain.
"One would hope that the only benefit out of this is - as a tombstone and testament to others, that these are the risks actually involved in going to a war zone - to dissuade people from ever making that choice really," Akunjee said.
In February 2015, Sultana and two other schoolgirls from east London boarded a flight to Turkey and then a bus to the Syrian border.
Sultana's family was told she married an ISIL fighter in Syria - and became a widow within months.
Reid says Clinton will stick with Garland as Supreme Court nominee if elected
Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid says he is convinced that Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton will nominate Judge Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court if she is elected president.
Senate Republicans have blocked Garland's confirmation since President Barack Obama nominated him in March.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell says the next president will choose the person to replace late Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia.
Reid said on a conference call Thursday that he is predicting Clinton will pick Garland "with some degree of credibility."
A spokeswoman for Reid later said he had not spoken to Clinton directly about whether she would nominate Garland and was speculating.
He praised Garland and said Clinton's team would not want to "rock the boat" with a new pick.
Garland is the chief judge for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
Reid said Republicans who are blocking Garland's nomination are "minions" and "enablers" of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump.
He said Trump is unfit for office.
Treats says nude calendar for 'women, as well as men'
Treats magazine is partnering with photographer David Bellemere to launch a 1970s' Pirelli-inspired calendar for 2017.
But instead of famous naked people, they're setting out to find the next generation of top models for their 2017 NU Muses calendar.
Treats president Steve Shaw told us earlier this year that his nude-heavy magazine differs from old-school Playboys because "Playboy is for men."
I do this for women.
Apparently he thinks the calendar is, too.
"We need to get back to showcasing timeless and classic nudity where women, as well as men, feel comfortable and inspired by these images of the female body," Shaw said in a press release announcing the calendar.
Women will want to be a part of this project because it's a beautiful piece of art.
Models can submit pics online or in person at open casting calls in Los Angeles and New York.
Vinyl destination: who is actually buying records?
Lonely, middle-aged men love vinyl.
Before you rush to litter the comments section with gnarly insults under the pseudonym NotAllLonelyMiddleAgedMen, this statement derives from actual data.
According to YouGov, the much talked-about record resurgence is driven not by a boom in millennials who want to embrace the novelty of a physical item, but by midlife nostalgia.
Those who have recently purchased a vinyl album are most likely to be aged between 45 and 54, apparently.
In fact, those in the 18-24 age group are the least likely.
It is not just an act of hoarding by hobbyists, either - it has emotional significance: older vinyl buyers are slightly more likely to keep their feelings to themselves (56% versus 53%) and enjoy being alone (69% versus 66%).
But are YouGov's results true?
If this blog was a televised news report, the camera would follow me as I walked down the middle of a busy Soho street, wearing a modest grey suit and gesturing wildly before stopping, cupping my hands and saying something authoritative like: "So, let's take a look."
So, let's take a look.
While the heart of Soho is slowly being drained of its charm and grot - hotels, Eats, Prets and Paperchases now fill the buildings once occupied by independent sellers - a handful of fantastic specialist record shops still remain.
I'd probably ask the camera to stop rolling for the next bit, in which I stand very close to various men in some of these stores and attempt to gauge their age and emotional disposition via observation.
Glaswegian Stuart, 55, whom I follow from Sister Ray (data count: two young women, three middle-aged men) into Reckless Records (data count: eight middle-aged men, one woman, probably in her 20s) is in London for the afternoon for a meeting and is perusing the shops to fill a few hours.
Is he a collector, I ask?
"I suppose I am," he says.
I have about 3,000 or 4,000 records.
These records, pictured above (he emailed me the snap, I didn't follow him home), line his living room walls.
His reason for acquiring such a vast number of albums and singles is partly a result of his disposable income: he is now able to buy records he couldn't afford when they originally came out, and to repurchase items he sold when he was young and skint.
"A lot of the stuff I get is late 60s, early 70s, things that came out when I was 11 or 12, things I was probably a bit too young to get," he says.
He agrees that those who purchase records are more likely to be introverts who like their own company, adding: "I don't smoke, I don't drink very much.
It's my vice.
Wez, 25, who works at Sister Ray, also believes that many of the customers he encounters fit the YouGov profile.
He has, however, noticed a new wave of people influenced by the media hype, people who heard about the comeback and felt compelled to buy back their old records.
From conversations I've had, people have got rid of their collection, normally around 1998 or 1999.
Customers who once sold their vinyl to buy CDs are now selling their CDs to buy their records back," he says.
That may explain a boom in vinyl revivalists of a certain age.
But what about the alleged emotional importance of records?
It takes a few seconds in a shop such as Phonica to realise that record stores offer a comforting community of likeminded types.
According to Wez, some older customers have taken umbrage with the contactless payment system in particular.
Some vinyl fans may feel overwhelmed by the digital world and choose to retreat to the stability of the familiar record sleeve, of items that recall halcyon teenage memories.
"I think sometimes it can be filling a void or having material possessions as some kind of comfort," Wez says.
As a collector myself, I have that, and I think a lot of people do.
It's an easy way to occupy your headspace.
"We're like their social workers!" pipes up a co-worker from a stack of records.
An ICM poll in April revealed that almost 50% of people who bought a vinyl album the previous month had yet to listen to it.
The poll also found that 41% have a turntable they never use, while 7% of those who purchase vinyl don't own a record player.
At this stage of the news report, I would probably be looking gravely concerned while flicking through a stack of bossa nova compilations.
The "trophy" aspect of the revival is something that Jonny, 42, who works in Sounds of the Universe (data count: three midde-aged men) has noticed.
"Someone came in recently and said: "I don't have a record player, but I want to buy a Radiohead record so we can put it on our shelf,"" he says.
That's not a large percentage, but it's definitely happening.
More of the product side, less of the music.
We have people saying: "I don't have a record player."
That's younger people, not older ones, late teens who are just getting into it.
Fopp, which now dedicates almost an entire floor to vinyl, has a far more varied audience when I arrive.
There are couples in their 70s, tourists taking photos, teenage boys and middle-aged women.
While the atmosphere is less at ease than the aforementioned stores - Wild Beast's latest synth- and sex-fuelled pop, rather than noodling jazz, is blasting from the speakers - it is good to see diversity in its customers.
None of them look particularly lonely, but nagging psychological trauma is hard to ascertain by standing next to someone for 30 seconds.
Elanora, 27, has been walking around Fopp for a few minutes, looking at the variety of records on sale.
She is window-shopping, rather than on a spending spree.
She doesn't earn a lot, she says, so collecting records isn't really an option.
It costs a lot.
It's easy to listen to music by a computer or another way, but the beauty of vinyl is ..." she drifts off into a lovestruck sigh.
I don't know how to explain - it's really unique.
My last stop is a shop said to have inspired a fresh generation of vinyl lovers: Urban Outfitters.
While giving the illusion of perusing the denim hot pants, I observe a group of teenage girls, who cluster around the Polaroid cameras momentarily, before a dad and his daughter deliberate purchasing a Crosley record player.
To the left is a stairwell, a wall of which is stacked with records by Adele, Jeff Buckley, Amy Winehouse and Fleetwood Mac: a mix of contemporary and classics, the essential records for any average collection.
Nobody is looking - perhaps because they are merely decoration, some so high up the wall that it would be impossible to touch them.
It is pure "art vinyl."
But, given that any attraction to these items could mean more money for the industry and send a few customers into the depths of Soho for more, there is little to complain about.
It is no surprise that a demographic more likely than most to have more time and money than most is also the one that spends the most on luxury items such as vinyl.
But while my findings suggest YouGov's results are accurate, in Soho record stores at least, they do not discount the huge number of female collectors and vinyl lovers that exist in reality, in record shops and on online forums.
These people are probably working hard at school or in offices.
They are certainly not spending their Thursday mornings loitering around the record shops of Berwick Street, flicking through records and avoiding the gaze of a creepy, 30-year-old fake television presenter who is looming over the shoulders of unsuspecting middle-aged men.
Greenland shark is longest-living vertebrate animal - video report
Scientists say the Greenland shark has the longest lifespan of any vertebrate on the planet.
Julius Nielsen, who has been studying the sharks, says record goes to a female thought to be between 272 and 512 years old and is five metres in length
French court rejects bid to demolish shops at Jungle refugee camp
A French court has rejected a bid by Calais authorities to demolish dozens of makeshift shops and restaurants in the Jungle camp where thousands of refugees are living.
At a court hearing this week, Calais authorities had argued the state should be able to knock down a total of 72 makeshift shops where people inside the camp sell goods, from cigarettes to energy drinks, offer haircuts, or sell tea for 50 cents (40p) or basic meals for a few euros in makeshift restaurants.
The Calais prefect's office argued the places should be demolished because they represented a parallel economy that did not pay tax, and because they carried fire and sanitation risks.
Humanitarian groups had told the court the shops and restaurants were vital, saying the free meals offered by a state-backed association and other groups did not provide enough food for the growing numbers at the camp.
They argued the makeshift shops and restaurants often provided shelter and free meals to those in need.
A Lille court ruled there was no legal basis for expelling the people running the 72 makeshift shops, but said the Calais prefect's concerns "were totally understandable."
The judge, Jean-François Molla, said the groceries, cafes and restaurants played a much bigger role than simply feeding people that "live in extremely precarious conditions."
He said the spaces provided calm meeting points between refugees and volunteers.
One of the places that had been under threat from demolition was the camp's Jungle Book Kids" Cafe which is run not-for-profit and provides 200 meals a day, English and French classes, and asylum advice for the hundreds of vulnerable unaccompanied minors in the camp.
More than 170,000 people have signed a petition to protect the kids" cafe.
A letter sent to the Guardian said its closure "would be a catastrophe for these children, some of whom are as young as eight."
Two charities, Help Refugees and L'Auberge des Migrants, on Friday estimated that numbers in the Jungle camp have risen to over 9,000 people - the highest ever - after a steep increase in arrivals during the summer.
Britain settle for silver in rugby sevens after Fiji masterclass sees them take gold
Great Britain's impressive run in the Rugby 7s was brought to a crashing halt at the final hurdle by Fiji in the final on Thursday night when they were comprehensively beaten 43-7 at the Deodoro Stadium here in Rio.
Fiji gave a masterclass in handling, off-loading, side-stepping, support play, running lines and brute strength to win gold - their first Olympic medal of any colour.
Defeat came with the non-too shabby consolation of silver - Britain's third of the day - and they could be proud of their efforts in the inaugural Olympic 7s tournament in which they beat New Zealand, Argentina and South Africa along the way.
The bruising beating of the Boks, 7-5 in the semi-final earlier in the day, may have come back to bite them in the final.
But, regardless, Fiji on this form would have beaten a fit as a fiddle 15-man team.
It may be some consolation to GB - but probably not - that at least one Briton will have a gold medal around his neck tomorrow: Fiji's head coach is Ben Ryan, the former England boss from Wimbledon.
It has been some journey for GB.
Eight years ago, under Ryan, they lost every game at the Adelaide Sevens.
Here, they lost just one.
This hammering will hurt but the progress is startling.
Fiji started magnificently, bouncing off GB tackles for fun.
It was like running into a series of moving buses for captain Tom Mitchell and co and the World Series champions went 5-0 up when Osea Kolinisau dived over in the corner.
With four minutes on the clock Jerry Tuwai added another down the right wing, which was converted.
12-0 and GB had hardly touched the ball.
A superb Mitchell tackle stopped the man-mountain Leone Nakarawa from scoring a third but it was only delaying Fiji.
On seven minutes Jasa Veremalua touched down in the right corner and GB were 17-0 to the bad.
Nakarawa added another from the restart and there was still over a minute on the clock ... in the first half.
Vatemo Ravouvou then burst through some more limp GB tackling and stormed to the line to score.
The conversion made it 29-0 at the break.
It was as if Fiji had been born to play 7s, while GB are still learning the trade.
Which is pretty much how it is.
GB made wholesale changes at half-time and they plugged the Fijian dam...for all of four minutes, which by first-half standards was good, until Josua Tuisova went over after some brilliant Fijian interplay.
Dan Norton grabbed a try for GB, touching down in the left corner to make it 36-7 but the game was long gone the way of the South Sea Islanders whose fans sang, waved flags and danced in the stands.
It was hard not to admire Fiji's whole joyful approach.
Mata Viliame iced the Fijian cake that didn't need icing with another try in the dying moments.
The whistle went, the Fijians embraced and GB hit the turf, thoroughly beaten.
Earlier in the day, Fiji had beaten Japan 20-5 in their semi-final and GB edged South Africa in a tight semi-final of one try each - Britain's conversion the difference.
Kyle Brown put the Boks ahead in the first half but Dan Norton with some dazzling footwork broke the line and scored under the posts in the second half.
A brilliant late tackle from Marcus Watson, brother of England's 15-aside team, Anthony, secured the win - and ultimately the silver medal.
Helen Glover and Heather Stanning inspired to rowing victory by coach's cancer battle
There will not be a more emotive gold at these games, and that is saying something.
From the first stroke to the last, 220 punishing heaves into history, Helen Glover and Heather Stanning found added meaning in their golden moment at the Estacio da Lagoa.
Though they were the two pulling on the oars, there were three voices in that boat, the echo of coach Robin Williams ever present as they powered to a second successive Olympic gold in the women's pairs, the first females in the annals of British sport to scale such a height.
Their dominance was absolute, after all this was their 39th outing unbeaten, again unprecedented.
What we see, two brilliant athletes skating over the surface with the elegance of swans, does not wholly reflect the nature of the triumph.
Behind every rowing gold is a battalion of willing hands contributing the incremental gains that make the difference, and no hands were more instrumental than those of a coach who 30 months ago did not know whether he would live to see this day when diagnosed with cancer.
As he said, it was touch and go.
I had bladder cancer which is one of the things they can operate on and they did.
If they don't it goes everywhere.
It would have been a pretty bad situation.
It alters your outlook a bit.
Williams was diagnosed in December 2013.
The trio were fortunate that he was able to begin his treatment at the start of 2014 out of season, keeping the disruption to a minimum, if that is ever the right expression in circumstances such as these.
I needed to get paid so I had to get better quickly.
It was an incentive.
I was in hospital and I was walking around the ward - 20ft, 30ft 50ft at a time when they were saying a few steps is enough.
That's how it starts off.
Rowing in itself is a journey but that makes it a bit bigger.
In the immediacy of victory their first thoughts were for Williams, who had spent a nervy morning talking a little more than usual in an attempt to process his own anxieties.
Stanning, a captain in the Royal Artillery regiment with a tour of Afghanistan behind her, said "I've been an emotional wreck this week, maybe that's a bit extreme, but it means such a lot."
It just reiterates how much this means to me, how much me and Helen have worked and Robin as well.
It's been a fantastic three years back with Helen and Robin.
Without Robin we would be nobody, so a massive thanks to him he's the best coach in the world.
I couldn't have asked for a better person to train with, or a better coach.
Helen Glover and Heather Stanning haven't lost a race in five years.
The pair set a punishing rhythm that their rivals could never match.
Even in the final 500 metres when the crews from New Zealand and Denmark began to close, Stanning and Glover had too much in reserve.
We were very much in the moment.
Helen was calling 'stay in the process, stay in the process'.
It's really important not to get carried away.
We had a good start and at the same time we weren't looking to do anything amazing.
We weren't looking for fireworks today, we were just looking to do a good row and to go out and win that race, which we did.
The pair will take a year before deciding their futures.
Glover has a wedding to attend next month, her own to television adventurer Steve Backshall.
For now she just wants to enjoy the moment.
I didn't want to say this was my last race.
That would have meant too much pressure.
In London it took about six months to realise that I was an Olympic champion.
It was all so new and I was so stressed.
Here it took about four minutes.
This feels so much better," she said.
A front-row seat to the stunning architecture of the Los Angeles Central Library
Learn more about the history of downtown's Central Library as the Society of Architectural Historians/Southern California Chapter hosts a salon with Arnold Schwartzman and Stephen Gee, authors of the new book "Los Angeles Central Library: A History of its Art and Architecture" .
Gee and Schwartzman are scheduled to discuss and share images of the 1926 Bertram Goodhue design as well as the 1993 restoration and addition by Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates.
The salon is set for 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. on Aug. 21 in the Salle Moderne at the Art Deco Southwestern School of Law, (formerly Bullocks Wilshire), 3050 Wilshire Blvd.
Attendees can tour the Central Hall, Period Rooms, Cactus Lounge and Tea Room.
Advance tickets are required; SAH/SCC members, $15; non-members, $25.
An open, industrial loft in DTLA gets a cozy makeover
Celebrating L.A.'s Central Library's 90th birthday with - what else? - a new book
Bulgaria Posts Inflation for 1st Time in 8 Months
Inflation in Bulgaria was 1% on a monthly basis in July, national statistics show.
This is the highest value in years (since June 2012) and the first one above zero since October of last year when a positive 0.2% was posted.
The annual average inflation, measured by CPI, in the last 12 months (August 2015 - July 2016) compared to the previous 12 months (August 2014 - July 2015) was -0.8%.
The consumer price index in July 2016 compared to June 2016 was 101.0%, i.e. the monthly inflation was 1.0%.
The inflation rate since the beginning of the year (July 2016 compared to December 2015) has been -0.2% and the annual inflation in July 2016 compared to July 2015 was -0.2%.
In July 2016, compared to the previous month, an increase was observed in the price of the following groups of consumer goods: food and non-alcoholic beverages (1.7%); transport (1.8%); recreation and culture (6.3%); restaurants and hotels (1.2%); miscellaneous goods and services (0.3%).
Prices decreased in clothing and footwear (2.2%); furnishings, household equipment and routine maintenance (0.5%); health (0.1%).
Prices remained at the same level as in the previous month in alcoholic beverages and tobacco; housing, water, electricity, gas and other fuels; communications; and education.
Snapchat "Anime" Effect Is Criticized as Asian Caricature
Snapchat says this filter is inspired by anime, but some observers say it's racially insensitive.
With its lens tool, Snapchat allows some 150 million daily users to alter reality and play with identity in ways that border on the absurd.
You can turn yourself into a pineapple, a dog or a character befitting a Roy Lichtenstein painting.
The lenses are blunt, feature-warping tools that generate more than 30 million enhanced selfies a day.
Any missteps quickly enter the public record.
Snapchat lenses have drawn criticism in the past with accusations that the app was promoting blackface or encouraging whitened skin tones as an ideal of beauty.
So when it pushed a lens to some users this week that gave them slanted eyes, distorted teeth and puffy cheeks, some critics called it a racist caricature of Asian people - "yellowface."
And they wondered if these repeated controversies pointed to a larger problem that the company has with diversity.
The news and the outrage went wide on Wednesday, with reports by The Verge and Motherboard, a day after Snapchat said it had dismantled the feature.
The company offered an explanation: The lens was meant as homage to anime characters, not as a caricature of Asian people.
But for observers who have experienced racism, the lens reminded them of hurtful stereotypes in action.
Others roundly rejected the anime comparison.
In an email, Grace Sparapani, a Korean American art student whose tweet about the photos was widely shared, said that the lens was "hurtful and uncomfortable to say the least."
She added that "it's hard to argue with the side by side comparison of the very gross Asian caricature and the filter's effects.
It shows that the filter isn't just yellowface, but yellowface taken to its derogatory extreme.
Snapchat is not the only company to cross these cultural tripwires.
American culture seems involved in an endless struggle over diversity and inclusion, from corporate boardrooms to Hollywood and the devices we all carry in our hands.
And Snapchat's huge audience of younger people - who are more racially diverse than their older counterparts - might mean that they are even more likely to expect sensitivity.
When one of Snapchat's lenses creates an image that is insulting to a user, 25-year-old Katie Zhu said in an interview on Thursday, "it's much harder for these types of things to go unnoticed like they did before."
On Thursday, Ms. Zhu, a product manager and engineer who works for Medium, decided to delete her Snapchat account and encouraged others to do the same.
In an essay for Medium and in a telephone interview, she said she believed that the race-related controversies reflected a lack of diversity in hiring practices at Snapchat.
Ms. Zhu criticized the company's mostly white, all-male leadership and ended her essay with a hashtag: #DeleteSnapchat.
"It's either that they had no diverse representation of people of color on their staff to the point where they're able to make decisions like this," Ms. Zhu, who is Chinese-American, said, "or they do have some people of color who are working there, but they're not on positions where they feel safe or comfortable to speak up."
Other observers share her view, a complaint that Snapchat has left largely unanswered.
The company does not release figures about diversity on its staff, noting its status as a private company.
On Thursday, Snapchat declined to discuss the racial backgrounds of its staff, but according to a spokesman, the company recently hired a recruiter to focus on underrepresented populations and on driving inclusion efforts internally.
For her part, Ms. Zhu said she would keep her Snapchat account closed, adding, "I wonder if they actually need more users like us to be able to say that this is not O.K."
Military Officials Distorted ISIS Intelligence, Congressional Panel Says
Officials from the United States Central Command altered intelligence reports to portray a more optimistic picture of the war against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria than events on the ground warranted, a congressional panel said in a report issued Thursday.
The interim report, from a task force established by the Republican chairmen of the House Armed Services Committee, Intelligence Committee and Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, found "widespread dissatisfaction" among Central Command intelligence analysts, who said superiors were doctoring their assessments of American efforts to defeat the Islamic State.
Central Command, known as Centcom, is the military headquarters in Tampa, Fla., that oversees American military operations across the Middle East and Central Asia.
"Intelligence products approved by senior Centcom leaders typically provided a more positive depiction of U.S. antiterrorism efforts than was warranted by facts on the ground and were consistently more positive than analysis produced by other elements of the intelligence community," a news release about the report said.
"What happened at Centcom is unacceptable - our war fighters suffer when bad analysis is presented to senior policy makers," said Representative Ken Calvert, Republican of California.
The leadership failures at Centcom reach to the very top of the organization.
The 10-page report detailed persistent problems in 2014 and 2015 in Central Command's description and analysis of American efforts to train Iraqi forces.
Although it offers no definitive evidence that senior Obama administration officials ordered the reports to be doctored, it describes analysts as feeling as though they were under pressure from Centcom leaders to present a more optimistic view of the threat posed by the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
"Throughout the first half of 2015, many Central Command press releases, statements and congressional testimonies were significantly more positive than actual events," the report said.
For example, a Centcom official stated publicly that a major military assault to take back Mosul could begin as early as April or May 2015.
Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city, remains under the control of the Islamic State.
"After months of investigation, this much is very clear," Representative Mike Pompeo, Republican of Kansas, said in a statement.
From the middle of 2014 to the middle of 2015, the United States Central Command's most senior intelligence leaders manipulated the command's intelligence products to downplay the threat from ISIS in Iraq.
Republicans created the task force after learning that analysts had raised concerns that intelligence about the Islamic State was being manipulated.
The report released Thursday is to be followed up by more extensive findings as the investigation continues.
There is an additional, ongoing investigation of Centcom intelligence by the Department of Defense inspector general.
Democratic members of the House Intelligence Committee released their own findings on Thursday that agreed with some of the conclusions of the Republican task force.
"Between 2014 and 2015, Centcom created an overly insular process for producing intelligence assessments on ISIL and Iraqi Security Forces," Representative Adam B. Schiff, the committee's top Democrat, said in a statement.
This process, Mr. Schiff said, "stalled the release of intelligence products," hurt morale among analysts and "insufficiently accommodated dissenting views."
But Mr. Schiff and the Democrats said they found no evidence that the White House tried to pressure Centcom analysts to fit their conclusions to a "preset or political narrative."
The preliminary results of the congressional investigation were reported Tuesday by The Daily Beast.
Last August, The New York Times reported the existence of the Pentagon inspector general investigation, opened after complaints by Centcom analysts.
Lt. Cmdr. Patrick Evans, a Pentagon spokesman, said in a statement that the Defense Department would not comment on the congressional report while the inspector general's investigation continued.
But he said that "experts sometimes disagree on the interpretation of complex data, and the intelligence community and Department of Defense welcome healthy dialogue on these vital national security topics."
The investigation has repercussions beyond the question of whether the American-led bombing campaign in Iraq and Syria is succeeding (an assertion now made by a growing number of Defense officials).
But last year's allegations called into question how much President Obama could rely on Central Command for honest assessments of military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya and other crisis spots.
The critiques on the Islamic State intelligence mirror disputes of more than a decade ago, when a Centcom intelligence analyst, Gregory Hooker, wrote a research paper saying that the administration of President George W. Bush, over many analysts" objections, advocated a small force in Iraq and spent little time thinking about what would follow the 2003 invasion.
Mr. Hooker also played a key part in the insurrection over the Islamic State intelligence.
Last year, officials said, Mr. Hooker's team concluded that despite public statements to the contrary, airstrikes against Islamic State-held refineries had not significantly weakened the terrorist group's finances because it had built makeshift refineries to sell oil on the black market.
But the finding was not distributed outside Central Command, The Times reported in September.
Centcom's commander then, Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III, came under criticism last year after Senate testimony viewed by many lawmakers as being an overly positive assessment of the war.
General Austin retired in April and was replaced at Central Command by Gen. Joseph L. Votel.
U.S. Wins 4th Straight in Women's Field Hockey, Setting Up Showdown With Britain
One day after scoring three goals in a 6-1 victory over Japan, Katie Bam scored the first two goals for the United States women's field hockey team on Thursday as the Americans defeated India, 3-0.
Five goals in two games should be a memorable feat, but Bam, 27, said she was not sure if she had ever done the same thing.
"I have no clue," she said.
I'm not really one of those people who keeps track of their goals.
Here is what she does know: The Americans are 4-0 in the Olympic tournament and are tied for first place in their group with Britain, which remained unbeaten after defeating Japan, 2-0, on Thursday.
Britain and the United States will meet on Saturday in the last game of the first round.
Both teams have qualified for the quarter finals, and the game will decide who finishes first in their six-team bracket and who finishes second.
The first-place finisher will avoid the powerful Dutch, the leaders of the other bracket, for a bit longer when the quarter finals begin.
However Saturday's game turns out, the Americans have created a stir with their surprising run here, four years after finishing last among 12 teams at the London Games.
Bam was on that team.
She grew up in Blue Bell, Pa., first picked up a field hockey stick when she was 3 (her twin older sisters played the sport at Drexel) and joined the national team when she was 16, becoming its youngest player ever.
She missed out on the 2008 Olympics when she did not make the cut for the final roster.
Then came 2012, when nothing much went right for her and her teammates.
The next year, Craig Parnham, an Englishman, was named the coach, and things began to change.
"A cultural change, a mental change, a physical change," Bam said.
We didn't have the work rate in London that we have now.
We've made a complete turnaround.
On Thursday night, Bam opened the scoring in the first half with a backhand shot from close in.
India had come into the game without a victory in the tournament, but the team proved surprisingly tough and kept the score 1-0 until late in the third period, when Bam took charge.
She made a long run with the ball down the left side of the field, then curled into the middle and whipped the ball into the goal to give the Americans a 2-0 lead.
Melissa Gonzalez added the final goal midway through the fourth period.
The shutout was the first of the tournament for the United States goalie, Jackie Briggs, who had allowed one goal in each of the first three victories.
She is on a roll.
So is Bam.
"We're in a good place right now," Parnham said, but just how good it is will depend on the result of Saturday's game.
Amid the Fury of the Olympics, the Zen of the Trampoline
Wherever you are, whatever time it is, it is the Olympics.
The events in Rio de Janeiro feel constant and inescapable, a furious relay of competition and striving.
It is as if the Olympic torch itself were a flaming baton, passed from archer to swimmer to gymnast to triathlete.
You can't turn on a television, read a newspaper or listen in on your neighbor's conversation in a coffee-shop line without hearing about Simone Biles, Katie Ledecky or the feud between Michael Phelps and Chad le Clos.
And then there is Logan Dooley.
Mr. Dooley, a first-time Olympian and a dimpled heartthrob in the making, may well be among those household names being showcased in prime time, buoyed by sponsorships and feel-good TV commercials, if he were a swimmer, a gymnast or even a fencer.
But Mr. Dooley, 28, of Lake Forest, Calif., is competing for the gold in Olympic trampoline.
The Olympic flame does not illuminate each event equally.
Further from the center, partly in shadow, are those sports not universally acknowledged: air-pistol shooting, archery, badminton, taekwondo.
We will always have the breaststroke, and long may it reign.
But if I may make a modest case for my particular favorite, let me call attention to the discreet charm of the trampoline.
Though trampoline has been an Olympic event since 2000, when it debuted at the Sydney Games, it has spent the intervening 16 years so barely acknowledged that many I surveyed did not realize it was an Olympic sport at all.
This may be a regional ignorance.
Despite sending athletes to compete, the United States has never won a medal in trampoline and did not have an athlete advance to the finals until 2012.
The Chinese and the Russians tend to split the prizes for the men, and the Chinese and the Canadians for the women.
Dong Dong of China and Rosie MacLennan of Canada will be defending their London gold medals this year.
But there is an underdog charm to trampoline, in part because it sounds, to the unenlightened ear, fitter for clown college than the Olympics.
Here I should confess that I am no expert, just an earthbound enthusiast.
It does have comic potential - the cartoon quaver of its never-ending bounce - but also the grace of gymnastics and diving, the two sports it essentially combines.
The word "trampoline" derives from the Spanish el trampolín, meaning "diving board."
Aspiring champions jump on a giant trampoline, shooting up to nearly 30 feet in the air, and are called upon to perform a series of tumbling moves (twists, pikes and somersaults) before eventually landing on their feet.
They are judged on execution, difficulty and "flight time," according to the official Olympic program.
Thirty-two athletes from 17 countries, 16 men and 16 women, will compete in Rio.
The most common Olympic vector is straight ahead.
Medal hopefuls must go farther, faster, up and over, in their quest for gold, sometimes to the finish, other times back and forth up and down the court.
They are chasing not only the finish line or the starting wall but also, in the televised coverage, another taunting line: that of the world, or Olympic, record.
This single-minded pursuit is noble, admirable, even fanatic - and it is enough to bring even a spectator to tears.
But it is also what I find slightly exhausting about even watching the Games.
From this, trampoline offers a respite.
The trampoliner's vector is up.
Forward motion is not the goal.
He or she rebounds, seeming weightless as an astronaut, going up, then down, then effortlessly up again.
It is not without competition, of course, nor without difficulty, but for the duration of a routine, there is no frantic charge toward the end, no vaulting into the distance, just the dreamy, graceful suspension of time and gravity.
It is as close to Zen as Olympic competition gets.
The women's qualifiers and then finals will take place on Friday afternoon, streaming at 1 p.m. Eastern time; the men's on Saturday, also at 1.
NBC will air the finals as part of an afternoon block beginning at 2 p.m. on both days.
In the midst of Olympic mania, they promise a quiet, lovely moment, one likely to be overlooked in the general melee.
And if consciousness raising is to be achieved only by offering up male athletes for ogling and objectification - as the United States men's gymnasts recently proposed, according to The Wall Street Journal - Mr. Dooley only awaits his gasping new fan base.
"A Generation Is Protesting" in Ethiopia, Long a U.S. Ally
Violent Protests in Ethiopia
Demonstrators demanding political change in Ethiopia have been met with violent resistance by the government.
Witnesses say that scores of protesters have been fatally shot during clashes with police.
Is Ethiopia about to crack?
For the last decade, it has been one Africa's most stable nations, a solid Western ally with a fast-growing economy.
But in recent months, anti-government protests have convulsed the country, spreading into more and more areas.
In the last week alone, thousands of people stormed into the streets, demanding fundamental political change.
The government response, according to human rights groups, was ruthless.
Witnesses said that police officers shot and killed scores of unarmed demonstrators.
Videos circulating from protests thought to be from late last year or earlier this year show security officers whipping young people with sticks as they were forced to perform handstands against a wall.
The top United Nations human rights official is now calling for a thorough investigation.
"It was always difficult holding this country together, and moving forward, it will be even harder," said Rashid Abdi, the Horn of Africa project director for the International Crisis Group, a research group.
Ethiopia is the second most populous nation in Africa, after Nigeria, and its stability is cherished by the West.
American military and intelligence services work closely with the Ethiopians to combat terrorist threats across the region, especially in Somalia, and few if any countries in Africa receive as much Western aid.
Ethiopia's economy has been expanding at an impressive clip.
Its infrastructure has improved drastically - there is even a new commuter train in the capital, Addis Ababa.
And its streets are typically quiet, safe and clean.
Though Ethiopia has hardly been a paragon of democracy - human rights groups have constantly cited the government's repressiveness - opposition within the country had been limited, with dissidents effectively silenced.
Many have been exiled, jailed, killed or driven to the far reaches of the desert.
But that may be changing.
"If you suffocate people and they don't have any other options but to protest, it breaks out," said Seyoum Teshome, a university lecturer in central Ethiopia.
The whole youth is protesting.
A generation is protesting.
The complaints are many, covering everything from land use to the governing coalition's stranglehold on power.
After a widely criticized election last year, the governing party and its allies got the last seat the opposition had held and now control 100 percent of the Parliament.
At the same time, tensions are rising along the border with Eritrea; a battle along that jagged, disputed line claimed hundreds of lives in June.
Analysts fear that separatist groups that had been more or less vanquished in recent years, like the Oromo Liberation Front or the Ogaden National Liberation Front, may try to exploit the turbulence and rearm.
Several factors explain why bitter feelings, after years of simmering beneath the surface, are exploding now.
The first is seemingly innocuous: smartphones.
Only in the last couple of years have large numbers of Ethiopians been able to communicate using social media as cheaper smartphones became common and internet service improved.
Even when the government shuts down access to Facebook and Twitter, as it frequently does, especially during protests, many people are still able to communicate via internet proxies that mask where they are.
Several young Ethiopians said this was how they gathered for protests.
Second, there is more solidarity between Oromos and Amharas, Ethiopia's two largest ethnic groups.
Oromos and Amharas are not natural allies.
For eons, Amharas from Ethiopia's predominantly Christian highlands flourished in politics and business, exploiting the Oromos, many of whom are Muslim and live in lowland areas.
But that is changing as well.
"We are on the way to coordinate under one umbrella," said Mulatu Gemechu, an Oromo leader.
The biggest protests have been in Amhara and Oromo areas.
Many Amharas and Oromos feel Ethiopia is unfairly dominated by members of the Tigrayan ethnic group, which makes up about 6 percent of the population and dominates the military, the intelligence services, commerce and politics.
The third reason behind the unrest is the loss of Meles Zenawi.
Mr. Meles, a former rebel leader, was Ethiopia's prime minister for 17 years, until his death from an undisclosed illness in 2012.
He was considered a tactical genius, a man who could see around corners.
Analysts say he was especially adept at detecting early signals of discontent and using emissaries to massage and defang opponents.
"The current regime lacks that ground savvy," Mr. Abdi, the conflict analyst, said.
Ethiopia's new prime minister, Hailemariam Desalegn, was plucked from relative obscurity to fill Mr. Meles's shoes.
Unlike Mr. Meles, who came from the Tigray region of northern Ethiopia, Mr. Hailemariam is a southerner.
Analysts say he does not have the trust of the Tigrayan-controlled security services.
The result, many fear, is more bloodshed.
The last time Ethiopia experienced such turmoil was in 2005, after thousands protested over what analysts have said appeared to be an election the government bungled and then stole.
In the ensuing crackdown, many protesters were killed, though fewer than in recent months, and that period of unrest passed relatively quickly.
Development experts have praised Ethiopia's leaders for visionary infrastructure planning, such as the new commuter train, and measurable strides in fighting poverty.
But clearly that has not stopped the internal resentment of Ethiopia's government from intensifying.
And it is taking a dangerous ethnic shape.
Last month, protesters in Gondar, an Amhara town, attacked businesses owned by Tigrayans, and anti-Tigrayan hatred is becoming more common in social media.
Analysts say the protests are putting the United States and other Western allies in an awkward position.
The American government has used Ethiopia as a base for drone flights over neighboring Somalia, though it recently said it closed that base.
While the West clearly wants to support democracy, it also does not want its ally in an already volatile region to crumble.
"That," Mr. Abdi said, "is a very tight rope to walk."
Donald Trump Explains His Obama-Founded-ISIS Claim as "Sarcasm"
Donald J. Trump tried to quash the latest controversy engulfing his campaign on Friday by claiming that he was not serious when he insisted several times this week that President Obama and Hillary Clinton were the "founders" of the Islamic State terrorist group.
The clarification raised new questions about the Republican presidential nominee's ability to communicate clearly to the American public.
It also put his surrogates, who have strained to defend him during a tumultuous stretch, in the awkward position of having to explain remarks that he might not mean.
After making the suggestion at a rally on Wednesday night, Mr. Trump doubled down on the assertion on Thursday, insisting in interviews that he really did intend to say that the president and Mrs. Clinton had created ISIS.
But in an early-morning Twitter post on Friday, Mr. Trump said that he was just being sarcastic.
The post was a reversal from just a day ago, when Mr. Trump said in a number of interviews that he was indeed serious about the charge.
When the conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt tried to help Mr. Trump soften the remark by reminding him that Mr. Obama wants to destroy ISIS, the Republican presidential nominee would not have it.
The latest firestorm comes as Mr. Trump has been trying to refocus his campaign on the economy amid declining poll numbers.
Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton gave dueling economic speeches in Michigan this week.
On Friday, Mr. Trump tried again to return to that subject.
Taking again to Twitter, he warned that Mrs. Clinton's proposals would come with higher taxes and he said that he found her speech boring.
Mr. Trump has used the sarcasm defense before.
In late July, after he drew widespread criticism by appearing to suggest that the Russians should hack Mrs. Clinton's emails, he later explained his remarks by saying, "Of course I'm being sarcastic."
The approach allows Mr. Trump to push the limits of political speech and dial it back as needed.
"I think it's a pattern of him testing certain messages that resonate with his fans, seeing how they play, and then "clarifying" one way or another depending on the reaction," said Ruth Sherman, a communications expert who has been monitoring the language used by both candidates.
But I also think he's clever about his statements and knows they are vague enough to be filtered through various lenses.
Instead of toning things down for a general election audience, Mr. Trump has taken an even more caustic tone in recent days as his poll numbers have continued to tumble.
A new NBC/Wall Street Journal/Marist poll released on Friday showed Mr. Trump trailing Mrs. Clinton by large margins in North Carolina, Virginia and Colorado and locked in a tight race in Florida.
While Mr. Trump generally tries to avoid apologizing for provocative things that he says, he often accuses his critics of misconstruing his words or misunderstanding his sense of humor.
But as he faces heightened scrutiny during the final months of the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump's jokes have put his loyal allies in the uncomfortable position of having to publicly stand up for him no matter how provocative his remarks.
Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor who is one of Mr. Trump's most prominent surrogates, went to great lengths to defend the candidate in an interview with CNN on Thursday.
"I think what he's saying there is legitimate, political commentary," Mr. Giuliani said when questioned about the veracity of Mr. Trump's assertion about Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton having founded the Islamic State.
It is true in a sense that before Obama, ISIS was an almost unknown, small little organization, he who called it the jayvee, totally wrong, and here's why it happened, because he withdrew the troops from Iraq.
Most mainstream Republicans try to argue that the Obama administration, in which Mrs. Clinton served as secretary of state, allowed ISIS to fester by failing to aggressively manage the situation in the Middle East.
Ahead of rallies in Pennsylvania on Friday, Mr. Trump continued to lash out on Twitter at the news media for harping on his every word and for being biased against him.
He mocked the "poor, pathetic" television pundits who try to figure him out and said, "They can't!"
Some Democrats scoffed at Mr. Trump's excuse as more evidence that he is unfit to be president.
Once Priced Out, a Cafe Returns in Greenpoint
Verb Cafe was a shabby, cash-only space in Williamsburg that had no Wi-Fi but served good coffee for 15 years.
Naturally, it got priced out of its Bedford Avenue storefront.
The store that replaced the Verb in the summer of 2014, Soap Cherie, sells soaps in the shape of cupcakes.
Locals bemoaned it as the latest loss in a gentrifying city.
The artist Molly Crabapple wrote on Twitter, "New York is change, I know, but still, can't believe CBGB's is dead and the Chelsea Hotel is gutted and Verb is now a soap shop."
But if New York is change, it is also reinvention.
A revived Verb Cafe opened last November in Greenpoint, less than a mile north of the original location.
The new Verb has Wi-Fi and accepts credit cards but has some of the same employees and a similar unpretentious vibe.
The coffee is still good, too.
Leading the new Verb is Cisco Rodriguez, a longtime employee at the old cafe who is an owner and the general manager at the new place.
He started at Verb in 2001 and was there until the end.
When a customer offered to bankroll him in a new outpost, he said he was excited to do it.
Mr. Rodriguez, 36, kept a lot of things the same.
Verb uses the same distributor for the bagels and bought the same model of espresso machine.
It even reused the lights from the old Verb.
But Mr. Rodriguez said he also wanted to experiment.
He introduced new ingredients.
Bacon-egg-and-cheese sandwiches are on the menu, and toppings like capers and sautéed onions are available.
There are brown-rice bowls.
The cafe no longer serves beer but now makes fresh juices.
Nine months in, Mr. Rodriguez said he had noticed a steady stream of old regulars.
"A lot of former customers got priced out of Williamsburg too," he said.
On a recent Sunday, Rebecca Oliveira was one such customer.
Ms. Oliveira, 34, used to live in Williamsburg and went to Verb frequently.
Even after she moved to Greenpoint, she would still make the trek.
After Verb closed, she said, she gave up drinking coffee for a while.
"I realized it was the coffee and the culture at Verb that I liked," she said.
Now she's back on coffee, although that day, instead of her usual iced coffee, she went with a blended chai drink, another new addition.
Tom Rosenthal, another longtime customer, went faithfully to Verb starting in 2003.
He'd go before work and order the same thing without fail.
"Quarter past seven, every day, like clockwork, I'd come in and they were making my everything bagel with butter," he said.
Photo Mr. Rodriguez said he wanted to experiment and introduced new ingredients to the menu.
These days, Mr. Rosenthal still gets his regular order, but sometimes he'll switch things up with the bacon, egg and cheese on an everything bagel.
Mr. Rodriguez said he had no hard feelings about the soap shop taking over the old space.
In fact, the Soap Cherie owners offered to make special soap for Verb, using the cafe's cold-brewed coffee as an ingredient.
"I think we still might take them up on it," Mr. Rodriguez said.
And Greenpoint's traditional Polish residents have embraced the cafe as well.
One of these new customers translated the menu into Polish, and Mr. Rodriguez said he planned to find a spot to display it soon to make his new neighbors feel welcome.
The new location has other perks.
A local juice spot wants to bottle and sell the cold-brewed coffee.
There is a chance the cafe will expand into an adjacent building.
For many customers, a new Verb to get their old favorites is enough.
Joseph Whitt was a regular and said he was heartbroken when they closed.
When the new space opened, Mr. Whitt said, walking in and getting a coffee felt like a homecoming.
"I've needed to smell that," he said.
The Depressing Food of the Depression, in "A Square Meal"
In March 1933, shortly after ascending to the presidency, Franklin Delano Roosevelt sat down to lunch in the Oval Office.
A gourmand, President Roosevelt had a taste for fancy Fifth Avenue foods like pâté de foie gras and Maryland terrapin soup.
His menu that day was more humble: deviled eggs in tomato sauce, mashed potatoes and, for dessert, prune pudding.
"It was an act of culinary solidarity with the people who were suffering," Jane Ziegelman said.
Her husband, Andrew Coe, added, "It was also a message to Americans about how to eat."
The couple, who live in Brooklyn Heights, are food historians.
Mr. Coe's last book, "Chop Suey," was about Chinese cuisine in America, while Ms. Ziegelman told the story of life in a Lower East Side tenement through food in her book "97 Orchard."
Their new, collaborative work, "A Square Meal," which will be published Tuesday by Harper, is a history of American food in the Great Depression.
Showing some culinary solidarity of their own, they met a reporter for dinner at Eisenberg's Sandwich Shop, a tiny no-frills lunch counter in the Flatiron district that has been in business since the year of the crash, 1929.
Ms. Ziegelman, 54, ordered a cream cheese and chopped olive sandwich, while Mr. Coe, 57, had the turkey, mashed potatoes and vegetable medley.
When a reporter ordered meatloaf, the couple deemed it fitting for a discussion of Depression-era eating.
"Loaves were very popular," Ms. Ziegelman said.
There was peanut loaf, liver loaf, bean loaf.
They were made from an ingredient and a cheap thing that stretches the ingredient out.
Imagine eating enough peanuts to serve as your dinner.
Mr. Coe grimaced.
"It must have sat in your stomach like lead," he said.
In the years before the Depression, the American table, especially in rural areas, was an all-you-can-eat buffet.
Teams of women cooked for male farmworkers, and fresh-baked pie was served at breakfast, lunch and dinner.
It was Americans who had sent food to starving Europeans during World War I. "A Square Meal" chronicles the ways the nation coped with suddenly not being the land of plenty.
"This was a time when food became a central, fraught subject for the American people," Mr. Coe said, explaining why he and his wife wanted to write about it.
Equally fraught was the new budget diet: Mystery dishes like loaves and casseroles became staples, the casserole a "wonderful way to repurpose leftovers," Ms. Ziegelman noted, because cooks could hide unappetizing ingredients under a creamy coating of sauce.
Fresh fruit was replaced with cheaper dried fruit.
Meat, for years the center of the American meal, became a sparingly apportioned luxury.
Strange mashups were tried as caloric and nutritional fulfillment took precedent over taste or even common kitchen sense.
In researching the book, which includes recipes, Ms. Ziegelman prepared a period dish of baked onion stuffed with peanut butter.
"It was not a popular addition to the dinner table," Mr. Coe said.
Ms. Ziegelman amplified: "It was surreal."
Peanut butter has nothing to say to a baked onion.
It was characteristic of a lot of the home-ec recipes.
As never before or since, home economists - among them Louise Stanley, chief of the federal Bureau of Home Economics from 1923 to 1943 - drove the country's eating habits.
Publishing recipes and articles in newspapers and magazines, they encouraged women to become "budgeteers" and rise to the challenge of transforming glop like creamed spaghetti with carrots into tasty dishes.
"A Square Meal" is a feast of historical tidbits.
Especially savory are the accounts of the government's response to its hungry citizenry, like President Herbert Hoover's let-me-eat-cake attitude.
While he publicly praised the simple Iowa farmhouse cooking of his childhood, he dined like the millionaire sophisticate he had become.
"He liked to eat Continental cuisine, like fish with cucumber sauce," Mr. Coe said.
He ate in almost a gold-plated dining room, wearing a dinner jacket.
He was fabulously out of touch.
President Roosevelt may have committed the same error if his wife, Eleanor, had not encouraged him to set an example with his stomach.
As the book tells it, Mrs. Roosevelt's hiring of a housekeeper with no interest in flavor resulted in a White House that "put out not only some of the dreariest food in Washington but also some of the most dismally prepared."
Many of the Depression-era food ways were abandoned as soon as the country got back on its feet.
The legacy is in our continued focus on calories and nutrition, Ms. Ziegelman said, and on the way science has been applied to cooking.
The couple said that in writing the book, they gained greater understanding of the eating habits of Ms. Ziegelman's mother - how she couldn't throw food away, for instance.
"She had a real fear of food waste," Mr. Coe said.
Ms. Ziegelman recalled: "She actually got people sick."
There was the cream-puff incident.
After the plates were cleared at Eisenberg's, she and Mr. Coe pulled out a dessert they had prepared at home: the prune dessert that President Roosevelt ate for lunch.
"It's called prune whip," Ms. Ziegelman said, adding that a common trick was to give modest recipes a snazzy name.
There was no whipped cream, just prunes, a little bit of flour, sugar, water and cinnamon.
Everyone reluctantly dipped a spoon into the viscous brown goo.
Surprisingly, it wasn't bad.
Mr. Coe went back for seconds, and thirds.
Sounding like a can-do budgeter, he told his wife, "Some chopped walnuts would help."
Gilead to get attorney fees in hepatitis C patent fight with Merck
Gilead Sciences Inc is entitled to receive the attorney fees it incurred related to hepatitis C patent litigation with drugmaker Merck & Co Inc, a U.S. district judge has ruled.
In June, Gilead was freed from paying up $200 million in damages for infringing two Merck patents related to Gilead's blockbuster drugs Sovaldi and Harvoni, after a U.S. judge found a pattern of misconduct by Merck including lying under oath and other unethical practices.
In a filing on Thursday, U.S. District Judge Beth Labson Freeman said that Gilead was entitled to relief from the fees it incurred while defending the case.
Merck is trying to catch up to Gilead, which dominates the market on a new generation of hepatitis C drugs that can cure well over 90 percent of patients with the liver disease.
The case dates back to 2013 when Gilead and Merck sued each other, claiming ownership of laboratory work underlying sofosbuvir, the active ingredient in Gilead's drugs.
U.S. backed forces say they have seized full control of Manbij from Islamic State
U.S.-backed forces have seized full control of northern city of Manbij near the Turkish border after the last remaining Islamic State fighters inside the city left, a spokesman for the group said on Friday.
Syria Democratic Forces (SDF) were now sweeping the city after the departure of a remaining group of militants who had been holed up in the city.
They had freed over 2,000 civilian hostages who had been held by the militants, Sharfan Darwish of the SDF allied Manbij Military Council told Reuters.
"The city is now fully under our control but we are undertaking sweeping operations," he told Reuters.
Clintons earned $10.75 million in 2015, paid 34.2 percent federal tax rate
Hillary Clinton on Friday released her 2015 tax returns, which showed the Democratic presidential nominee and her husband had $10.75 million in income that year and paid an effective federal tax rate of 34.2 percent.
In 2015, the Clintons made $1 million in charitable contributions, mostly to the Clinton Foundation; former President Bill Clinton brought in nearly $5.3 million in speaking fees; and the former secretary of state reported income of $3 million from publisher Simon & Schuster for her book on her tenure at the State Department.
Clinton's running mate, U.S. Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, along with his wife, Anne Holton, released 10 years of tax returns.
They paid a federal effective tax rate of 20.3 percent in 2015.
"Hillary Clinton and Tim Kaine continue to set the standard for financial transparency," Clinton campaign aide Jennifer Palmieri said in a statement.
In stark contrast, Donald Trump is hiding behind fake excuses and backtracking on his previous promises to release his tax returns.
It is customary for U.S. presidential candidates to make their tax returns public, although they are not required by law to do so.
Trump, a New York businessman, and his lawyers have cited an audit by the Internal Revenue Service as a reason for his refusal to release his returns.
"Your move," Clinton campaign aide Ian Sams said on Twitter, linking to the Democratic nominee's returns.
On Thursday, Trump's special counsel, Michael Cohen, told CNN he would not allow Trump to release them until the audits are complete.
Trump's critics, including 2012 Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney and other fellow Republicans, have said his refusal raises questions about his net worth, his charitable contributions, his business dealings and various other ties, including with Russia.
Clinton has pounced on the issue, releasing an online video on Friday highlighting high-profile Republicans urging Trump to release his taxes.
On Thursday, she raised the issue during an economic speech in Michigan.
"He refuses to do what every other presidential candidate in decades has done and release his tax returns," she told the crowd.
Politico has reported that Trump paid zero to very little taxes for two years in the 1990s, and a New York Times business columnist on Friday quoted a number of tax lawyers and accountants saying that could still be the case.
Federal tax rates have become an issue in the presidential election.
Clinton has endorsed a rule named after billionaire investor Warren Buffett that would ensure those making more than $1 million a year pay a tax rate of at least 30 percent.
President Barack Obama also backs the proposal.
At a Clinton rally last week in Omaha, Nebraska, Buffett, whose Berkshire Hathaway conglomerate is based there, challenged Trump to meet and exchange tax returns.
Buffet said that he too was under IRS audit and Trump is "afraid" not of the tax-collection agency but of voters.
Clinton's campaign has released tax returns going back to 2007.
The Clintons, who now live in Chappaqua, New York, paid an average effective federal tax rate of about 32 percent from 2007 to 2014 and an effective combined tax rate of approximately 40.5 percent.
The Clintons' 2015 return showed that, unlike most Americans, just $100 of their income came from wages.
Their main investment was a low-cost index mutual fund, and the Clintons reported dividend and interest income of $109,000.
Additional reporting by Kevin Drawbaugh; Editing by Jonathan Oatis
Chilli-powder condoms, firecrackers boost Tanzania elephant protection
Conservationists in Tanzania are using an unorthodox way of keeping elephants from wandering into human settlements - by throwing condoms filled with chilli powder at them.
The method has proved effective and Honeyguide Foundation, which hit upon the idea several years ago, with U.S.-based Nature Conservancy has stepped up its promotion, training volunteers in villages in north Tanzania to use a non-violent four-step way of protecting their homes and crops without hurting the animals.
Previously many used spears to defend themselves.
Friday is World Elephant Day, which is dedicated to the protection of the animals.
"Since we developed the ... toolkit, we have seen an attitude change within these communities whereby they are much more confident that they can keep elephants out of their fields without harming the elephants," Honeyguide executive director Damian Bell said in a statement.
The first two steps involve shining a torch at the trespassing elephant and sounding a horn.
If it is not deterred, a so-called "chilli cloud" is thrown.
Chilli powder mixed with soil is packed with a firecracker into a condom, its end is twisted shut with just the fuse exposed.
When lit, the condom bursts open with a bang, spraying a fine dust of chilli powder into the air.
One whiff is usually enough to send an elephant the other way.
A last resort is a launcher that shoots a Roman candle firework into the air, producing a loud, bright explosion.
Jewish filmmaker slams Berlin hotel for removing Israel dial code after Arab "request" - RT News
A French filmmaker of Jewish origin unleashed a media furor after he revealed that the Kempinski Bristol hotel in Berlin does not list Israel's dial code, with employee citing "requests" from Arabic customers.
Claude Lanzmann, an author of Holocaust documentary "Shoah," vented his frustration at the Kempinski Bristol Hotel in Berlin, writing an open letter in the German outlet FAZ.
During his recent stay, Lanzmann tried to find Israel in the list of dial codes provided by the hotel.
The country however was not mentioned among the states one can call directly from the room.
How is it possible, in 2016 in Berlin, the capital of the new Germany, that Israel was eliminated and eradicated?
Lanzmann wrote.
Instead, Kempinski Bristol offers an opportunity to dial Israel via an own call center.
Seeking explanation, the filmmaker addressed the issue at the hotel's reception.
The answer he got there, Lanzmann wrote "shocked him."
The hotel's clerk said that the measure was "a deliberate decision by the management of Kempinski-Hotels."
The reason behind the move triggered even more outrage by the filmmaker.
"The majority of our guests are Arabs and they demanded Israel's code to be deleted," the employee was quoted as saying by Lanzmann.
Israeli ambassador to Germany Yakov Hadas-Handelsman called the case a "great shame," Suddeutsche Zeitung reports.
We were appalled and shocked by the incident.
It is in itself a great shame.
The fact that it has occurred in Germany and at that very hotel chain, is an even greater disgrace.
That needs no explanation.
We expect that the hotel draws the right conclusions," the official said.
The incident triggered quite a response online, with people calling it a scandal.
Some alleged that the Kempinski hotel simply "caved in" to the alleged demands of Arabic customers.
"Shame on you," another post stated, pointing out that the hotel, located in the noble Kurfurstendamm street stands near a synagogue.
The hotel itself was quick to brush off any accusations, calling what happened an "oversight" and "apologizing" to Lanzmann, Der Spiegel reports.
"There was never a direct order" not to include Israel in the fast dial list," Suddeutsche Zeitung quoted a Kempinski representative as saying.
It adds that the code was now added.
Police use tear gas & rubber bullets against protesting Brazilian students
Students clashed with police in the Brazilian city of Sao Paulo on Thursday as they gathered to demonstrate against government reforms to the public education system.
Police used tear gas and rubber bullets against the protesters.
The trouble started when law enforcement officers tried to disperse the students, which led to the police using rubber bullets and tear gas.
Several hundred students took part in the demonstration to express their dismay at the plans.
Under proposals from the governor of the state of Sao Paulo Geraldo Alckmin, just under 100 public schools will be closed, while 300,000 students will be relocated in order to save money.
Some of those taking part in the protest could be seen writing graffiti on the walls against the interim President Michel Temer.
This latest protest comes just days after protesters took to the streets en masse to support suspended President Dilma Rousseff as the country's senate voted for her impeachment.
Trade between Russia & Iran surges 71% - RT Business
With the lifting of sanctions, trade turnover between Moscow and Tehran has grown 70.9 percent in year-on-year terms, according to Russia's ambassador to Iran, Levan Dzhagaryan.
Since international sanctions against Iran were lifted, there has been a surge in interest from Russian firms in doing business in the country, the ambassador said.
Russian companies are resuming existing ties with Iran, while new firms are ready to get access to the market.
Of course, the further expansion of trade is one of the main priorities of the bilateral cooperation with Iran," Dzhagaryan said.
He noted that in the first five months of 2016 the trade turnover between Russia and Iran increased by 70.9 percent compared to the same period of 2015 and amounted to $856 million.
In particular, Russian exports to Iran jumped by 91.5 percent and amounted to $697 million.
Russian imports from Iran increased by 16 percent to $158 million.
The boost in trade was achieved by supplies of machinery, ground vehicles and weapons," the ambassador said.
Dzhagaryan is also expecting a record number of Iranian tourists to visit Russia this year.
Last year, the Russian diplomatic mission in Iran issued about 35,000 visas, mostly travel, to Iranian citizens.
In addition, for the first time Iran entered the top 20 countries by number of tourists visiting Russia.
It's safe to say that last year's record number of Iranian tourists visiting Russia will be broken," he said.
At the same time, relatively few Russians are visiting Iran, something the ambassador hopes will change.
"I can personally recommend to visit the cities of Isfahan, Shiraz and Yazd that have preserved monuments of ancient Persian civilization in good condition," he said.
Scot Callum Skinner storms home as Brits grab cycling gold
Scotland's Callum Skinner raced to glory in the men's team sprint at the Rio velodrome last night as the Team GB trio defended the title from London 2012.
The Glaswegian 23-year-old was in the anchor role that his fellow Scotsman Sir Chris Hoy made his own and the youngster did the legend proud as he stormed home to snatch victory from the favoured New Zealand outfit.
Britain claimed a shock victory four years ago to win as Hoy claimed the fifth of his six Olympic golds.
And they repeated the trick after finishing a lowly sixth at March's Track World Championships in London, despite Hoy having since retired.
The issue between Beijing and London was replacing specialist starter Jamie Staff.
They did so just in time as Hindes emerged.
Hoy's retirement also created a void which Kian Emadi and Matt Crampton tried to fill.
Skinner was the man Britain's coaches stuck with, seeing potential in the Scot which has now been realised.
Hindes, Kenny - champions with Hoy four years ago - and Skinner set an Olympic record in qualifying, but the standard was overtaken by New Zealand in the first round.
And the British trio won the duel for gold.
Hindes was narrowly behind after his lap, but Kenny pushed the team in front and Skinner held on.
A change of strategy was a big part of the transformation, with Hindes riding a bigger gear to slow him down and allow Kenny and, in particular, Skinner to keep pace.
Hoy watched on from his position as a BBC pundit and caught the eye of Skinner, Kenny and Hindes when they stepped on to the podium.
The 23-year-old Skinner, from Glasgow, said: "It's a flattering comparison."
I'm just out there to do my best and make a name for myself.
We set an Olympic record in the final and beat the world champions.
It was just incredible.
There's no better way to win it.
After triumphing at London 2012 alongside Kenny and Hoy, Hindes admitted to deliberately falling to the track following a poor start.
He later retracted the comment and there was no method of appeal from Britain's rivals.
There was no such issue this time around in a supreme victory.
Hindes said: "It felt like London, with all the GB flags in the stand."
We all as a team came together in the last three months.
We've been losing out on so many world titles, so to win the Olympics again is just amazing.
That is one event, one gold medal for the nation which won seven out of 10 track titles in both Beijing and London.
If that is a barometer of the progress made in the last five months, then a successful five days in the velodrome awaits.
With the form Kenny demonstrated, it is not beyond the realms of possibility to imagine him repeating Hoy's feat of winning three Olympic golds in one Games.
That would see Kenny - who is exactly 12 years younger than Hoy, who is also born on 23 March (that seemingly sacred date in British sport which is also the birthday of Steve Redgrave, Mo Farah and Roger Bannister) - take his tally to six gold medals and one silver.
That would be the same as Hoy's.
Kenny next competes in the sprint, which begins on today and plays out over three days.
The 28-year-old from Bolton said: "I'm just enjoying this one for now.
The team event is always the best.
You get to win it with your mates.
It's a bit lonely winning on your own to be honest.
Hindes said: "If he wins another two gold medals, he should get a knighthood."
It was the day's only medal event, but there was further good news for Britain.
Sir Bradley Wiggins, Ed Clancy, Steven Burke and Owain Doull qualified fastest in the four-man, four-kilometres team pursuit.
They finished in 3:51.943.
The world record, set in winning gold at London 2012, is 3:51.659.
The first round and final (10.42pm) take place on today's second day of action, where Wiggins is sure to be the focus.
He had a dispute with commissaires yesterday ahead of the qualification ride, when officials summoned him to measure his height.
In the corresponding women's event, which resumes and concludes tomorrow, Laura Trott, Joanna Rowsell Shand, Elinor Barker and Katie Archibald of Milngavie advanced in a world record time, clocking 4:13.260.
Team GB have come to rely on its mighty track cycling squad to take ownership of the middle period of an Olympic Games and deliver a host of medals.
After truly exceptional showings of utter dominance at Beijing and London, expectations have been played down in the lead-up to Rio.
There have been dramas in the background, not least the resignation of technical director Shane Sutton in April amid sexism and bullying allegations, and the retirements of giant figures like Hoy and Victoria Pendleton.
However, on the evidence of the first night's racing in the velodrome, it looks like GB's now legendary reputation for peaking at the perfect time could be about to be repeated once again.
Portland smelter's future in doubt with axing of power contract
The future of the Portland aluminium smelter in Victoria - and the jobs of hundreds of workers - is in doubt with the power company which supplies the plant disclosing one of the plant's owners is to terminate a supply contract, with all supply contracts expected to be axed.
The move follows the decision of the Victoria government earlier this year to not extend subsidies provided to keep the plant in operation.
A 20-year fixed subsidy expires in November.
Up to 2000 jobs may be at risk at Alcoa's Portland plant.
As many as 2000 jobs - direct and indirect - could be at risk with any closure.
And there could be additional knock-on effects since the smelter consumes around 10 per cent of Victoria's entire electricity output.
In 2014, Alcoa closed the Point Henry smelter which led to the closure last year of the Anglesea power plant.
Alcoa's Portland smelter is losing money and risks closure.
The moves follows speculation about the future of the plant for several years now, initially in the wake of the strong Australian dollar and more recently due to the price for the output from the plant.
AGL, which supplies the big aluminium smelter with electricity from its Loy Yang A power plant in the Latrobe Valley, said it expects the other three owners will also move to terminate their agreements.
The plant is majority owned by a joint venture of Alcoa and Alumina, with China's CITIC and Japan's Marubeni Corp holding smaller shares.
"AGL expects the Portland facility to continue to operate, meaning physical demand for electricity from the smelter will continue," it said.
AGL said the contracts are so-called 'hedging contracts' which were due to take effect from November 2016.
The contracts have a 12-month termination period so they will actually finish in 2017.
"As such, AGL continues to expect the contracts to contribute to earnings in fiscal year 17," the power company said.
Any potential earnings impact on AGL from FY18 onwards is currently limited by the strong futures market outlook for wholesale electricity prices.
AGL said it had already written down the value of the contracts in its accounts by $187 million in "anticipation of a termination event."
Alcoa said the decision to close out the contracts "does not affect Alcoa's ... ability to operate the smelter or secure electricity supply to the smelter."
The US company said it entered into a 20-year contract with Loy Yang in 2010 , which was due to commence from November this year, although it has yet to explain why it has pulled out of the contract.
Analysts have been wary of the possible closure of both of the Portland smelter in Victoria and also the Tomago plant near Newcastle due to the poor economics of the industry.
Addressing analysts earlier in the week, AGL's head of operations, Stephen Mikkelsen said Portland uses around 600 megawatts of power annually and Tomago around 900 megawatts.
If both of those plants go from the market that's a significant reduction in demand in the [electricity] market.
And as a generator that wouldn't be good for us," he said.
Not just a Kardashian reality TV star, Kendall's on the cover of September's Vogue
Kendall Jenner, 20, model and fourth daughter of mother-manager Kris's Kardashian-Jenner clan, is on the cover of US Vogue's coveted September issue.
Kendall, who is an Estee Lauder brand ambassador and has walked in Milan, Paris and New York fashion weeks, announced the news on her Instagram account on Thursday.
"In a room with a bunch of people I love, looking at this cover made me cry," Kendall wrote.
The cover revelation was followed by a bizarre (or simply Keeping Up with the Kardashians-esque?), scripted reality video that featured the entire Kardashian-Jenner family (bar troublemakers Rob and Caitlyn, and joined by everyone's favourite showbiz uncle, Keeping Up producer Ryan Seacrest) forgetting about their sister's cover, only to end with the classic twist: they were all planning a surprise party.
It's the cliche plot line of nearly every "birthday" episode of a children's television show (Seacrest delivers the line, "You thought we forgot about you?," with the sincerity of a cartoon rabbit in an 8am timeslot), but Kris had to get her other girls in on this publicity somehow.
Because, with a spot on Vogue's September issue, we have surely entered a new era of Kardashian.
Kendall's big sister Kim may have beaten her to the cover of Vogue (she shared it with husband Kanye West in April 2014), but the magazine's September cover is a league unto itself.
The September Issue is Vogue's highest selling edition of the year.
With a thickness more closely resembling a coffee table book than a fashion magazine, the issue attracts a huge number of advertisers (Fashionista counted 615 of last year's 832-page tome as advertising content).
The revelation of its cover star is so hotly anticipated that, in the past two years, pictures of the magazine have been leaked before the official announcement.
Previous women to feature on the cover include Naomi Campbell, Linda Evangelista and Kate Moss.
In recent years, the cover has certainly featured more "celebrities who model" than "models who are celebrities."
Oscar winner and Dior ambassador Jennifer Lawrence was featured in 2013, the year after Lady Gaga had the honour.
But, even on the off-chance that Ms Jenner - who is described by the magazine as the "breakout model" of her generation - falls into the former category, she is in pretty good company.
These celebrities are not relatives of famous people, or reality stars, or kids these days who know how to make a good Snapchat video (although Jenner is all of these things).
They are legitimately talented women, excelling in the entertainment industry.
Beyonce, who appeared on last year's cover, has had one of the strongest years of her career with the release of Lemonade.
Of course, not everyone is pleased about Jenner's success.
With her reality television history, Jenner's position within the fashion world was always going to be fraught.
In June, original Victoria's Secret model Stephanie Seymour criticised Jenner and her colleague Gigi Hadid, calling them the "bitches of the moment."
This sentiment has boiled up again with the news of Jenner's Vogue cover appearance.
But dwelling on the discontent seems beside the point.
Kendall Jenner is on the cover of the September Issue of Vogue.
She is a supermodel, in the purest sense of the word.
She's walking for Marc Jacobs.
She's selling you Estee Lauder foundation.
She, and all of her sisters, are selling you pictures of themselves on their respective paywalled apps.
She's selling pictures of Cindy Crawford's daughter she photographed to LOVE magazine.
And, in her downtime, possibly just as a way still to see sister Kourtney and her kids, she's on reality television.
Community legal centres turn away 160,000 people a year
More than 160,000 of the nation's most vulnerable are turned away from community legal centres every year, with the sector bracing itself for the impact further funding cuts will have on already-stretched operations.
In Queensland, three out of five people - mostly the elderly, immigrants, vulnerable workers, victims of violence and those without resources to fight unfair evictions and the like - are already turned away while seeking free legal advice and representation.
Community legal services, already stretched beyond limits, are bracing for further cuts.
From June next year, those legal centres are slated to lose another 30 per cent of their federal funding.
Director of Community Legal Centres Queensland James Farrell said the latest National Association of Community Legal Centres Census Report found thousands of people were already being turned away each year.
Mr Farrell said without a reversal of the federal government decision, the situation was only going to get worse.
"Queensland's community legal centres are chronically underfunded, meaning thousands of people are turned away from the vital services they need," he said.
People leaving violent relationships, people with unmanageable and crippling debts, families going through separation, workers who are unfairly sacked - all of these people have problems with legal dimensions, and this report shows that they're not able to get the help they need.
The federal government will cut funding by 30 per cent from June 2017, which means thousands more vulnerable Queenslanders will be forced to navigate complex legal problems without help.
We call on the Attorney-General, and Queensland Senator George Brandis to immediately reverse these funding cuts, so people can get the help they need when they're faced with a legal problem.
Last year, the state government delivered on its commitment to bring legal aid funding up to the national average.
It's now time to look at the needs of community legal centres and their client communities, and for the Palaszczuk government to invest in this important work.
Donald Trump campaign sued after staffer allegedly pulled a gun
New York: Donald Trump's campaign was sued for allegedly doing nothing after being told that the director of its North Carolina operations pulled a gun on a staffer as they drove in a Jeep in February.
The incident was described in a lawsuit filed on Wednesday in state court in Charlotte by Vincent Bordini, a former software trainer for the state campaign.
Bordini said he waited for months for the situation to be handled internally before realising "this was not going to happen."
The director, Earl Phillip, "produced a pistol, put his right index finger on the trigger, and drove the barrel into Vincent's knee cap," Bordini said in the complaint.
After complaining to local and regional campaign leadership, Bordini learned that at least four other people had experience the same thing with Phillip, according to the filing.
"Guns don't have to fire to inflict damage," Bordini said in the complaint.
The suit comes just two days after the Republican presidential nominee caused a furore when telling a crowd in North Carolina that the "Second Amendment people" -- understood to be gun owners and gun enthusiasts -- could take action if his rival Hillary Clinton were elected and gets her pick of judges.
Trump's campaign said the media had taken his words out of context and that he wasn't advocating violence.
Bordini's complaint seeks compensation from the campaign for negligent supervision, and from Phillip for assault, battery and infliction of emotional distress.
Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks didn't immediately return a message seeking comment.
Attempts to reach Phillip were unsuccessful.
WCCB, a local news affiliate in Charlotte, reported Phillip recently left the campaign.
A call left at his consulting firm, Innovative Consulting Services, wasn't immediately returned.
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has run a controversial campaign.
The case is Bordini v. Donald J. Trump For President Inc., 16-CS-14300, General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division County of Mecklenburg (Charlotte).
Britain must channel the Olympic spirit and expand Heathrow
Heathrow will also deliver regeneration and prosperity not just in our local communities and across London, but across the country.
For me, this was the great attraction of Heathrow, just as it was with London 2012, where we made enormous efforts to ensure that all our nations and regions benefited from the Games.
The Olympics achieved huge benefits for Stratford and the East End.
And, we will do so again by creating opportunities for local people and firms close to Heathrow.
For our local communities alone we'll create 10,000 new apprenticeships, 40,000 new jobs and bring an end to youth unemployment around the airport.
Just as there were ahead of London 2012, there will be those that think the challenge of Heathrow expansion is too great.
I was told that Britain would be never be ready for the Games and that we would be embarrassed on the world stage.
The doubters were wrong on 2012 and they will be proved wrong on Heathrow.
There are always obstacles to be overcome, but Heathrow is answering every question asked of it.
Like the Olympics, Heathrow is an infrastructure project for the many, not just the few.
Expansion is an opportunity to create up to 180,000 new jobs, £211bn in economic growth, leaving a legacy of skills and employment both around the airport and across the UK.
We have a great team at Heathrow who have implemented an £11bn programme of infrastructure investment on time and on budget, from T5 - voted the world's best airport terminal five years in a row, to T2, built in the middle of the world's busiest two runways.
Now they stand ready to deliver a third runway, backed by £16 billion of private investment.
The London 2012 Games were a great success for the UK and I am confident that Heathrow expansion will be too.
It is time for us to channel that Olympic spirit and expand Heathrow, securing our trading future and creating a legacy of skills and employment that Britain can be proud of.
Lord Paul Deighton is chairman of the Heathrow Board and former Commercial Secretary to the Treasury
Adblock Plus, Facebook in "cat-and-mouse game" over ad blocking
For companies that make money from online advertising, attempts to circumvent ad-blocking software amount to a "cat-and-mouse game," according to one of the companies that makes that software.
On Thursday, just two days after Facebook announced it would be blocking ad blockers on its desktop site, Adblock Plus published a blog post saying that users could update their filters in its program to block ads on the social network once again.
On Tuesday, Facebook said that its desktop website would change the coding around its ads in order to make it more difficult for ad blockers to detect which parts of a page are ads.
But Adblock now says it has gotten around the new codes.
In a blog post, Adblock spokesperson Ben Williams wrote that "this sort of back-and-forth battle between the open source ad-blocking community and circumventers has been going on since ad blocking was invented," and that it is possible Facebook would come up with its own fix soon.
The fact that the world's largest social media company has entered the fight is a strong indication of just how big a concern ad blockers have become for the industry.
Globally, roughly 200 million people use ad blockers, according to a study last year from Pagefair and Adobe; nearly quadruple the number who used such software in 2013.
With 1.03 billion daily active users accessing Facebook via mobile devices, mobile advertising now accounts for 84 per cent of Facebook's advertising revenue.
The company is going after ad blockers on desktop however, because mobile ad blockers are not effective in Facebook's mobile apps for the social network and Instagram, a spokesperson said.
Desktop ads still account for enough revenue that Facebook judged such a move to be worth the investment.
Also on Tuesday, Facebook said it would be updating its "ad preferences" tool to give people more control over how ads are targeted to them.
On Thursday Facebook claimed that Adblock's new filters were concerning because they would also block some non-advertising content on the site.
"This isn't a good experience for people and we plan to address the issue," a Facebook spokesperson said in an e-mailed statement.
Ad blockers are a blunt instrument, which is why we've instead focused on building tools like Ad Preferences to put control in people's hands.
Woman run over on Swiss motorway in apparent suicide
The victim was lying on the motorway in the middle of the night.
Police are appealing for witnesses after a woman was run over by several vehicles on a motorway in the early hours of Thursday in an apparent act of suicide.
The incident happened on the A1 near Morges in the canton of Vaud just after midnight on Thursday.
A woman lay down in the dark on the road "in a desperate act" and was hit by several vehicles, Vaud police said in a statement.
Clearly looking to kill herself, the victim, a Swiss woman aged 49, was hit by several vehicles including a lorry.
She died at the scene.
Several of the drivers involved have already been interviewed but some are still unidentified, said police, who are calling for them and anyone else who witnessed the incident to come forward.
A criminal investigation has been opened, a "logical" step in a situation like this, lawyer Gilles Hofstetter told Le Tribune de Geneve.
However it remains to be seen if any of the drivers involved will face charges.
Was it possible to avoid impact?
That's what the prosecutor must determine," said Hofstetter.
Two other similar cases in the past five years suggest that drivers will not be held responsible.
In each case - both of which involved a person walking on the motorway in the dark - it was judged that motorists cannot expect to come across a pedestrian on the motorway in the middle of the night, said the paper.
Last year a police officer was acquitted of causing death by negligence after she hit and killed a man who was lying on the A1 near Paynerne one night in August 2014.
The 22-year-old victim had been drinking and had passed out on the road, the court heard.
The court found that the policewoman -- who was responding to an emergency call -- was driving in a manner that was justified and that the presence of a man on the road was a "completely exceptional and unpredictable situation," the judge said.
Anyone with information about Thursday's incident near Morges should call police on 021 644 83 46 or 021 644 44 44.
NASA climate model: Venus was once habitable
Venus was likely once habitable, according to the projections of a new NASA climate model.
Scientists at NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies developed a model to explore Venus' past using tools and algorithms similar to those employed by climate scientists.
The model was designed to determine whether or not Venus, with its hot, water-less surface and CO2-chocked atmosphere, might have once hosted Earth-like conditions.
Scientists have previously suggested that Venus' slow rotation rate is explained by its thick atmosphere.
But the latest simulation suggests Venus could have boasted a thin, Earth-like atmosphere and still spun slowly.
The model also looked at the topography of early Venus.
The planet likely featured more dry regions than Earth, but once had enough water and geographical variability to host life and guard against rapid evaporation.
Early Venus also benefited from a sun that was 30 percent dimmer.
"In the GISS model's simulation, Venus' slow spin exposes its dayside to the sun for almost two months at a time," GISS scientist Anthony Del Genio explained in a news release.
This warms the surface and produces rain that creates a thick layer of clouds, which acts like an umbrella to shield the surface from much of the solar heating.
The result is mean climate temperatures that are actually a few degrees cooler than Earth's today.
The model produced a story of Venus similar to the evolution previously hypothesized by planetary scientists.
Though likely once habitable, Venus was -- over the course of several billion years -- exposed to too much heat and ultraviolet light.
Its oceans evaporated and its water vapor was burned away by ultraviolet light.
As its hydrogen escaped, all that was left was a thick atmosphere of carbon dioxide with a deathly greenhouse gas effect -- thus, the Venus we know today.
Researchers shared the results of their new Venus climate model in the journal Geophysical Research Letters.
Patrick Roy resigns as Avalanche coach
Patrick Roy resigned as coach and vice president of the hockey operations of the Colorado Avalanche on Thursday, citing a lack of a voice within the team's decision-making process.
Colorado executive vice president/general manager Joe Sakic confirmed the move and noted that the club will begin a search for a new coach immediately.
"For the past three years, I have carried out my duties as head coach and vice president of hockey operations for the Colorado Avalanche with energy, passion and determination," the 50-year-old Roy said in the statement.
I have thought long and hard over the course of the summer about how I might improve this team to give it the depth it needs and bring it to a higher level.
To achieve this, the vision of the coach and VP-hockey operations needs to be perfectly aligned with that of the organization.
He must also have a say in the decisions that impact the team's performance.
These conditions are not currently met.
Sakic, who hired Roy on May 23, 2013, thanked Roy for his contributions to the team.
"Patrick informed me of his decision today," Sakic said.
We appreciate all he has done for our organization and wish him the best of luck in the future.
Roy was named the Jack Adams Award winner as the league's best coach during his rookie season with the Avalanche in 2013-14.
He guided the club to 112 points and a first-place finish in the Central Division, but Colorado was upset by Minnesota in the first round of the playoffs and has missed the postseason in each of the last two years.
The Avalanche posted a 39-39-4 mark in 2015-16 and fell five points shy of the Wild for the second wild-card spot in the Western Conference.
A Hall of Fame goaltender, Roy won four Stanley Cups -- two apiece with the Montreal Canadiens and the Avalanche.
North Sea oil workers resume talks, suspend strike
Labor strikes over pay for North Sea oil workers are suspended while all parties to the dispute sit down for a new round of talks, lead negotiators said.
Strikes against oilfield services company Wood Group have been staged sporadically on platforms in the North Sea operated by Royal Dutch Shell.
"Wood Group and the Unite and RMT unions can confirm we have agreed to restart the process for resolution of the current dispute," a joint statement read.
We will hold a number of full-day meetings over the next few weeks, starting early next week, to take a fresh look at the issues.
The labor unions said their recent action, which they said is the first in more than 25 years, was in protest of potential pay cuts of up to 30 percent.
Wood Group this year cut rates paid to its North Sea contractors by about 9 percent because of negative market pressures.
The company's rate reduction follows a 10 percent decrease for onshore contractors in 2014.
The company said additional cuts would give the company the room needed to move through the market downturn.
Shell, for its part, has trimmed thousands of people from its payroll and announced plans to leave oil and gas operations in up to 10 countries as it streamlines its operations in the wake of its mega-merger with British energy company BG Group.
Energy companies are under pressure from lower crude oil prices, an economic situation compounded by the British decision in June to leave the European Union.
Scottish Member of Parliament Dave Anderson met with labor leaders earlier this week to discuss one of the biggest labor disputes to strike the North Sea in a generation.
The North Sea, he said, is vital for the regional economy.
"In the North Sea and right across the country, we need an economy that works for the many and not just the few," he said in a statement.
Less than $1.4 billion in spending on new projects in the North Sea is expected in 2016, compared with an average of around $7 billion in the past five years.
Kepler measures spin rates of stars in Pleiades cluster
The latest mission by the Kepler space telescope has helped astronomers collect the most complete catalog of spin rates among the stars of the Pleiades cluster.
The new data is helping astronomers understand why stars in the cluster spin at varying rates, as well as how rotation periods relate to planet formation.
"We hope that by comparing our results to other star clusters, we will learn more about the relationship between a star's mass, its age, and even the history of its solar system," Luisa Rebull, a research scientist at Caltech's Infrared Processing and Analysis Center in Pasadena, said in a news release.
The Pleiades cluster is situated 445 light-years from Earth.
Many of the stars in the cluster are just now reaching adulthood, having been born roughly 125 million years ago.
They're spinning as fast as they ever will.
At their peak spin rates, these maturing stars eject large amounts of stellar wind.
As these winds travel across the stars' magnetic fields, they enact a braking effect on the stars.
As a star ages, its spin rate begins to slow down.
Kepler measures each star's spin rate by tracking the time between the appearance of recognizable starspots -- like sunspots.
The latest catalog of spin rates suggests more massive stars spin more slowly than less massive stars.
Rebull likens the stars to dancers, larger ones pirouetting more slowly than smaller ones.
"In the 'ballet' of the Pleiades, we see that slow rotators tend to be more massive, whereas the fastest rotators tend to be very light stars," said Rebull.
Because the Pleiades cluster is so close, it serves as an ideal cosmic laboratory to compare stellar qualities with spin rates.
"The Pleiades star cluster provides an anchor for theoretical models of stellar rotation going both directions, younger and older," said Rebull.
We still have a lot we want to learn about how, when and why stars slow their spin rates and hang up their 'dance shoes,' so to speak.
Rebull and her colleagues detailed their latest analysis of Pleiades spin rates in three new papers, soon to be published in the Astronomical Journal.
Model killed by a chef.
Twelve years later, her family still has no peace!
The victim is model Sally Anne Bowman.
The Croydon-born girl was murdered in 2005 in the restaurant where she worked by chef Mark Dixie, who stabbed her.
Both the victim and the killer had sex and smoked marijuana, then he killed her.
The killer then sat in a nearby café and watched the painstaking investigation of the crime scene.
Dixie, a former chef, was sentenced to a 34-year prison term in 2008 for the rape and murder of the model Sally.
He only confessed to assaulting the young woman to the court, and his lawyer claimed that his client had found the dead girl lying on the street already dead.
The police convicted him three years later.
Dixie claimed that Sally and her ex-boyfriend Lewis Sprotson were fighting on the fateful night.
The murderer said, "He was really upset, and after he attacked her the girl started screaming."
"She even caught the attention of the taxi driver," he falsely stated.
According to his testimony, the girl defended herself as best she could, but it was in vain.
Lewis supposedly stabbed her on the street.
Dixie's version was been proven to be a lie and inculpated him.
After he confessed, Dixie spoke of his desire and lust for the girl.
When he dressed her after sex, he felt happy and had to smoke marijuana.
Before the incident with Sally, he had been with his former girlfriend, drinking alcohol and taking cocaine, as Dexie himself revealed to the police.
He said that he felt adrenalin.
Sally started screaming for help, so he attacked her from behind and put his hand over her mouth," Linda added the Mirror.
Twelve years later, the family faced further acts of aggression, with vandals destroying her grave.
It has been damaged four times in the last half year.
There are cruel people going around who dig up these graves.
"So our daughter is not there anymore," Linda, the mother of the late girl, told The Mirror, describing the disappearance of the urn and ashes.
Linda waited for the vandals, but they always attacked when she left the cemetery.
Designer vibrators cost tens of thousands of crowns.
"Czechs are neither prudish nor conservative," says Martin Ráž, who runs the Intimity boutique in Prague.
In it, you will find designer and luxury erotic aids,
including those by Czech designer Anna Marešová.
It began inconspicuously about 12 years ago.
Martin Ráž and his friends went on a bike tour in Moravia.
However, one of them did not just bring a bicycle, but also a box full of unusual looking vibrators.
"There were various kinds of moles and dolphins, and everything was green and yellow, and everything was totally different," he told me during lunch.
His friend had decided to work as a partner to Fun Factory, the German manufacturer of designer sex toys, which attracted Martin, who offered to help with marketing.
When his associate left to take up another position, he replaced him.
Today he runs the Intimity boutique in Prague's Benediktská ulice, where he sells sex toys in the way luxury handbags or shoes are often presented.
And why not?
They are also designer items.
One second, are you asking yourselves, “is this what you talk about over lunch?”
Come on, don’t be such puritans!
It was the Fun Factory store in Berlin, which was designed by renowned designer Karim Rashid, that served as the inspiration for the Intimity boutique.
It opened in 2010 and was based on a completely different concept of the erotic store to what everyone is used to here.
There are no hidden displays, and everything is done in a beautiful, decent way, with the products exhibited like in a perfume store.
Martin and his business partner Zdeněk Šebelka began to think about how to get hold of a shop in Prague, where it should be and what it should be called.
Both of them liked the name Intimity.
"It's related to intimacy, and I would say it is gentle," he said.
The next step was to purchase the internet domains and look for a suitable space that would work in parallel with the various visualisations of the interior.
In the end, the variation that won saw the shop displayed as a garden of delights and a bedroom, dominated by beds.
Dagmar Štěpánová from the FormaFatal studio made it for us.
We found the space in 2013.
At first we thought it wasn't ideal, because it wasn't on the high street, but it was thanks to that that we came up with the name Intimity.
It's intimate.
It's in the street near to the high street, so no one can stare at the customers," commented Martin Ráž.
We wanted to be the first.
We wanted to create a shop that would be different, with good, branded products, in an environment where women, who are our main customers, feel comfortable.
It should be the kind of shop they aren't ashamed to enter.
When I went to the Intimity boutique half an hour earlier, the streets were empty.
I didn't even have the feeling that I was going to a shop with sex toys.
As soon as I got to the door I was surprised by the clean elegance of the interior, which I know from fashion boutiques.
Even though only women work in the shop, so that women do not hesitate to ask for help, that doesn't mean that men can't step foot in it.
Gentlemen mainly go to buy gifts for their girlfriends.
"Men usually can not guess the right size, and they usually opt for one that is too big," chuckled Martin over the frequent mistake.
This cliche refers back to a preconception that women need big sexual aids, but it isn't true.
So although they have good intentions, men usually choose an unnecessarily big vibrator.
Likewise, men mostly pick out black underwear, while women usually tend towards pink colours.
The absolute bestseller at the moment is the appropriately named Satisfyer.
The expression on my face must have made it clear that I didn't which kind it was, as Martin immediately explained how it works.
It is a kind of contactless clitoris stimulator.
I feel the adolescent need to chuckle with admiration for the serious tone with which my comment is handled.
As if it didn't phase him at all.
At it really doesn't.
It is affordable and has perfect reviews from its users.
We couldn't believe it was so well received.
It's like the most recent innovative revolution.
The first revolution saw vibrators in the shape of a seahorse.
It paid attention to the fact that women were starting to be interested in the design of these kinds of products.
The second was the We-Vibe vibrator for couples.
It completely shattered the taboo that had been persisting among some men who saw erotic aids as competition.
"They make various kinds," he continued.
With one motor, with two motors, and with remote control.
That's the most popular category.
While making love together, both men and women can have the control in their hand and alter the intensity of the vibrations.
On the other hand, the category of penetrative vibrators was a complete washout,
at least for us.
Czech women seem to prefer multi-purpose aids and buy classic vibrators, although they are only used externally.
It is very popular in Western Europe, especially among younger customers.
And what about men?
It's hard to say, but it seems like this kind of concept would also work exclusively for men.
It might have to be conceived in a slightly different way, however.
The question is what to offer men," mulled Martin.
"We have aids for them too, but only to a limited extent." Masturbators are the most sold, in our case those produced by Tenga.
It doesn't look like an anatomical imitation of a vagina but "more like a shower gel or an egg, or some kind of futuristic object.
There is a lot of focus on functionality and user experience.
It's completely different in Japan, however.
It really surprised me.
I thought the Japanese women were very picky about sex toys.
"That's the Internet reality," he explained to me.
Banal truth is quite different.
Here in Europe, erotic aids are generally associated with being used by women.
In Japan, they're absolutely normal for men, but they're taboo for women. Out of interest, of the products by the Japanese brand Tenga worldwide, which can be found in the Intimity boutique, about half is sold in Japan.
In our waters
Czech men and women aren't at all prudish.
On the contrary, we are a very openminded country.
There's definitely a difference from countries such as Catholic Poland or Italy.
A typical client of the store is between 35 and 50 years and "has some experience with both sex life and using toys.
They come for something nice and high quality, either for a fulfilling life with partner or just for themselves. To ensure that these customers keep coming back, Martin Ráž and his business partner Zdeňek Šebelka take care to check every product to make sure it's actually functional.
We don't want to get involved in any specialism, such as bondage or latex, because we don't have a place for that, it doesn't exactly fit.
These things might dissuade the people we're trying to attract.
These are people were always too shy to go to a sex shop because they worried that they would find something like that staring them in the face.
The variety of products displayed on the shelves is really appealing.
It's also achieved through the selection of appropriate, renowned brands.
Some of them have even won awards, including the Red Dot Design Award.
The very first to win a prize was the aforementioned sea horse, "and that triggered change across the industry.
Manufacturers stopped using cheap materials, and instead began working a healthy approach. They started producing different designs, in various colours...
It's enjoyable to know that a Czech woman was behind the design, specifically the popular designer Anna Marešová.
I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised how many people buy the designer Whoop.de.doo products by Anna Marešová from us, even though they are relatively expensive.
There are customers who go directly to the Venus Balls by Anna Marešová.
She did a really great job by presenting exactly what we are trying to present in the Czech Republic and abroad - that erotic aids can be made differently and nicely, with a story.
Anna's story started as a school project.
Now it is a finished product that is produced in our country.
I wanted to have control over the production process and I also wanted to know with what materials and how Whoop.de.doo products are made.
Because it is not large-scale but rather small series, which is certainly more expensive than a big series.
Maybe I'm going against the current a bit, but it seems important to me to keep the development in the Czech Republic.
It may well be that in a few years we will no longer be able to produce anything." This is how Anna described the situation later, agreeing with Martin that our society is becoming more open.
She isn't faced with a positive or negative attitude.
At most, people are embarrassed.
"But then they will start to smile." At present, Anna Marešová range includes a vibrator that can come with a personal message, and she is also planning her own lubrication gel for next year.
Next year, she plans to offer vibrating eggs and other new items.
The border of healthy sex
I'm interested in where the border lies of what's acceptable.
Is there something that Martin Ráž wouldn't sell?
That's very hard to define.
What seems normal to one person may seem totally abnormal to someone else, so we define ourselves by our assortment of branded products.
None of them are particularly extreme.
Before we say goodbye, I have one last question: What was the craziest request they received?
We just received an email, in which a woman requested a masturbation aid for her boyfriend, who was 28 cm long by nature.
We had to reply that we don't have anything appropriate, unfortunately.
But the question remains if someone was making fun of us," said Martin, casting me a suspicious look.
It happens from time to time...
A blow for Karel Gott.
After two cases of cancer, now Alzheimer's!
His friend Karel Štědrý is fighting the serious illness.
Karel Gott's best friend is fighting against the disease that robs people of all their memory.
"Yes, unfortunately it's true," the singer himself told Blesk, confirming the sad information.
I know about my illness, and I can handle it all given the circumstances.
"I'm taking medication to slow down the side effects of the disease," he said, thanking his loved ones for their support.
The whole branch of the family has come together to make life easier for Karel.
His wife Eva tries to be at home as much as possible, while Zuzana and Teresa, his daughters from his first marriage go to his house on Bílá Hora, and his son Karl, nicknamed Karlas, takes care of him.
Štědrý fought cancer twice and shared his experience with Slavík to support him in his demanding treatment.
He has completed 60 rounds of chemotherapy.
Afterwards, he was able to go back to working on the tennis court and the ski slopes.
"An astrologer predicted that I will have up to 90," Karel told Blesk.
He's a fighter.
He longs to keep singing.
"I keep repeating song lyrics so I won't forget them," Karel admitted.
The actress Květa Fialová is currently struggling against the same disease in a home.
Do you have patients with Alzheimer's in your family?
Find out how to act towards them.
The Chilean parliament ends the ban on abortions as the Constitutional Court passes a law.
Until now, there has been a total ban on aborting pregnancies in Chile, even for medical reasons.
"I am sorry that the lawmakers filed a complaint with the Constitutional Court, so that now there will be ten people deciding on what we have been arguing about in parliament for more than two years," complained Socialist Senator Isabel Allende.
The Constitutional Court in Chile has ten members, and at the end of August it should get a new president, who is close to the opposition according to the AFP.
The law abolishing the absolute ban on abortion was initiated by the current President Michelle Bachelet, and was approved by the Senate on 19 July.
The right-wing opposition then announced that it would appeal the law would at court, on the grounds that it violated the unborn child's right to live.
Members of parliament postponed the vote last month while the Joint Parliamentary Committee carried out an analysis.
MPs approved the draft on Wednesday and the Senate convened after them.
According to the new legislation, pregnancies can be ended in three cases: if the woman's life will be endangered, if the foetus has no hope of survival or if the pregnancy is the result of rape.
According to the Spanish paper El País, similar exceptions existed in Chile since 1931, which was before women were given the right to vote in 1949.
The total ban on abortions was introduced in 1989 by right-wing dictator Augusto Pinochet, just months before he left the presidential office.
Chile is one of the few countries in the world to enforce an absolute ban on abortion.
The others are Nicaragua, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Haiti, Malta and Honduras.
In El Salvador, for example, about 20 women are currently behind bars, serving prison sentences of up to 30 years for the termination of their pregnancies.
According to human rights defenders, many cases declared murder by the court are actually miscarriage.
Czechs have quickly taken to free roaming, using more data abroad than at home.
Czechs consume more of their tariffs abroad than at home.
They travel in Austria most often, but in the summer season the consumption of data is dominated by Croatia.
While on holiday, they have more time to browse the web, and most of the time they are not able to connect to Wi-Fi under the breach umbrellas.
Beach and bathing, smart phone in hand.
This is how a typical Czech holiday in Croatia looks now that customers can use services by local operators as part of their home tariffs.
O2 recently released statistics painting this picture.
Thanks to the new roaming rules, most Czech travellers abroad can access more data as part of their normal rate at home.
It's no wonder, then, that in Croatia, where a minimal amount of our countrymen go in winter, consumption of data rose by as much as fifty times this summer.
Italy ranked second in the list of consumed data.
Czechs use the most minutes calling from Germany, where they go to work a lot during the summer.
According to the Association of Czech Travel Agencies, 800,000 Czechs visit Croatia each year, making it our most popular holiday destination.
People have swapped their holiday books for sharing their experiences on their mobile phones.
The record was 7 July.
"Tens of millions of photographs were transferred with the data," said Silvia Cieslarová, director of the O2 mobile department.
Although Croatia comes first in terms of the volume of data, the highest number of Czech users can be found in neighbouring countries.
Austria is in first place, followed by Germany and Slovakia.
Croatia is fourth and Italy sixth.
We go to Austria for hiking and active holidays, meaning we do not have much time to browse the internet.
"Most Czechs head through Austria towards the Adriatic," Cieslarová explained.
While the operator recorded a year-on-year growth in roaming charges, the number of phone calls remains much lower.
The number of minutes used while roaming double in relation to the previous year.
Germany dominates with a huge lead over other countries.
"Calls while roaming are more likely to be made by business customers on work trips," Cieslarová added.
French Navy captures a huge supply of cocaine heading to Australia.
The French Navy seized a yacht in the Pacific carrying 1.46 tonnes of cocaine, worth about $256 million.
The consignment was headed to Australia.
The four-man crew was arrested during the siege, and was apparently formed of Lithuanian and Latvian people.
The yacht, which was named Afalina, sailed from South America and the police dragged it to a port in Nouméa, a metropolis in the French overseas territory of New Caledonia in the Pacific Ocean.
The Australian intelligence service said it would work with its international partners to determine exactly where the drugs were going to and from, and to unmask the "Lithuanian syndicate".
"We are grateful to the French authorities for taking measures that have stopped a large number of drugs targeting Australia," said managing director Col Blanch.
The drugs were destroyed in Nouméa this week.
Australia is an attractive target for smugglers because of the high street prices of drug.
The country is also struggling with a growing number of people with drug addictions.
This haul was not the first in recent times.
Last month, three men were accused of transporting a large number of drugs from the United States to Australia, which they attempted to smuggle across the Pacific in a small plane.
Seniors don't feel thirst and need to be reminded to drink.
The problem can be found in seniors' homes, and according to Pavla Mádlová, a physician from the Geriatric Clinic of the General University Hospital in Prague, the solution could be an infusion of a physiological solution under the skin with a thin needle.
However, at present this approach is only applied in health care facilities.
The older a person is, the more the amount of water in their body decreases.
"And they also lose their sense of thirst, so seniors generally drink less fluids and become dehydrated very quickly," said Mádlová.
They should definitely drink two litres.
"But getting so much fluid into an old person is a big problem," she added.
She thinks that doctors often don't monitor this in care homes for seniors.
In hospitals, dehydration is commonly treated with infusions.
"I think subcutaneous infusions should be gradually introduced there too," she said.
In her opinion, older people can be given a two-litre bottle of physiological saline in one day.
A lack of fluids can cause malnutrition, headaches and decreased performance.
Dehydration manifests itself as a complete loss of self-sufficiency.
"One day, the old man says he can't get out of bed, and starts talking in a confused way," she added.
If ignored, it could lead to a stroke.
Blood becomes thicker and clogs the blood vessels in the brain, and there is also a risk of kidney failure.
Lying patients should not be covered with a duvet, at most they should have cotton sheets.
Disposable incontinence pants may also be a problem.
"It's more demanding on the nursing staff, but the ideal would be to uncover the patient occasionally and let the skin breathe," the doctor explained.
A man carries out an acid attack but the court declares him not dangerous.
You never know what can happen to you.
One moment, you're at home laughing with your family, and the next your whole life is shaken to the core.
And the worst thing is that you can't do anything about it at all.
This is the fate that met Andreas Christopheros from Great Britain, whose face was burned with acid by an unknown attacker who was eventually acquitted.
Reuters reported on the story.
In December 2014, someone at knocked on the Christopheros' door.
Andreas got up to open it.
He thought that the person at the door was probably the courier who was supposed to deliver the Christmas gifts for the family that day.
Instead, a terrible surprise awaited him.
A man he had never seen in his life poured acid on him without warning as soon as he opened up, saying, "That's for you, friend."
The pain was indescribable.
My clothes dissolved into nothing, and I just felt an unreal pain on my skin," said Andreas.
His family quickly took him to the hospital, but his relatives learned terrible news there - the doctors said he had no chance to survive.
Several weeks after the incident, doctors were constantly worried that their patient would succumb to the infection that threatened to penetrate his wounds.
His injuries were very serious.
Ninety percent of his face was affected, and the doctors attempted to piece it back together with skin from other parts of the patient's body.
One major complication for Christopheros was the loss of his eyelids.
Without doubt, it's the most painful thing I've ever experienced.
"You can't escape from unexpected light, you can't close your eyes," he said, describing his suffering.
At this point, Christopheros has undergone twelve operations and is still far away from the last.
According to plastic surgeons, injuries affecting sufferers of acid attacks can require hundreds of surgical interventions and years of healing.
Even after demanding, long-term treatment, the victims still have scar tissue for the rest of their lives.
"Sometimes people do not recover, and they fight deformity and disfigurement throughout their lives," said Peter Dziewulski, a spokesperson for the British Association of Plastic and Aesthetic Surgeons.
The attacker made a mistake.
In terms of the attack, Christopheros is convinced that the unknown man must have confused him with someone else.
The perpetrator believed that he was taking revenge on a man who had sexually abused someone close to him.
The police investigated the case thoroughly and finally tracked down the assailant.
The man was originally sentenced to at least eight years in prison.
However, the verdict was later fundamentally altered, much to the astonishment of Christopher's family.
"Three judges eventually concluded that the sentence should be abolished because the man was not considered to be a threat to the public," said Christopheros.
The number attacks using corrosive substances has increased considerably over the past few years.
The UK Ministry of the Interior has announced that it plans to tackle the issue by issuing new guidelines to prosecutors concerning the classification of corrosives.
They should be classified as dangerous weapons.
However, the victims of these attacks are unwilling to give up.
They are demanding that the UK Government enforce stricter and longer prison sentences for people attacking their surroundings with acid or other corrosive substances.
They are also calling for tighter controls on the sale of dangerous substances, which are often commonly available in many shops since they consist of various cleaning products.
In Dubai, the biggest city in the United Arab Emirates, one of the tallest residential buildings in the world, the famous Torch skyscraper, caught fire during the night.
According to the Dubai civil defences, the inhabitants of the eighty-story building were evacuated in time and no one was injured.
According to a spokesman for the Dubai Police, a fire broke out on the ninth floor and spread upwards.
Several residents of the building claim the opposite happened, however.
"It started on the 67th floor, that's what they told us," said one of the tenants.
Moreover, according to another tenant quoted by Reuters, the fire broke out on the top floors and spread downwards, with glowing debris falling down.
We were sleeping.
We were woken up by the alarm, people were yelling.
"We ran down the stairs, which took us about ten minutes from the 50th floor," tenant George described the scene.
Other witnesses speaking to CNN estimated that the flames affected about 40 homes.
On the ground, the fire destroyed at least two cars when parts of the burning building crashed down on them.
The fire was under control after about two hours, according to civil defence reports.
The cause of the outbreak is not yet known.
According to witnesses in the surrounding buildings, the electricity cut out.
An extensive fire damaged the Torch skyscraper in Dubai in February 2015, ruining more than 100 apartments.
The whole building has about 680 apartments.
Nothing happened to anyone then either, as the inhabitants were evacuated in time.
The Torch skyscraper was built in 2011 and was then the highest residential building in the world, at 352 metres tall.
Another skyscraper in Dubai took over the record the following year.
A bodybuilder had an unbelievable 14 doping substances in his body.
And he still didn't win.
According to the Corriere della Serra, a sample from 23-year-old Ippolita revealed a large collection of illicit aids - from steroids to diuretics and medicine for Parkinson's or anorexia.
Paradoxically, this wild mixture did not help him, and he finished fourth.
Now the bodybuilder is facing a four-year ban and criminal prosecution.
The record was 11.
Last year, Italian rugby player Davide Vasta tested positive for 11 doping substances, which was a record among all the athletes ever caught.
The third league player apparently began to take steroids a year earlier, when he got addicted to bodybuilding.
Lucka Vondráčková in the Czech Republic.
She passionately embraced her former lover!
As soon as Lucka Vondráčková sets foot in the Czech Republic, she's on the go.
And she also attracts attention wherever she turns up.
Last time, her former lover Michal Dlouhý, who lived with her for three years, fell into her arms.
The actor was 12 years older and longed for a family.
At that time, Lucie was only 19 years old, and she definitely did not want put the brakes on her career.
They separated back then, but remain friends to this day.
They proved this at a press conference at TV Prima, where they met after a long time.
By coincidence, they both matched with blue colours.
At first they ignored each other, but then they got closer, and Lucie laughed at Michal's jokes, to the point where she ended up clutching her belly.
Then they hugged and willingly posed for the photographers.
Their encounter was not a coincidence, however, as they will play a loving couple in the new Prima series Kapitán Exner.
Islamists receive a life sentence in the UK for planning an attack.
On Thursday, the British court issued life sentences to four members of the Islamist cell that called itself Three Musketeers, which planned a terrorist attack against the police and the army.
The four men, two of whom attended a training camp in Pakistan and had previously convicted for similar acts, were arrested last August.
The authorities then thought they were about to attack very soon.
Security agents found a partially finished tubular bomb in one of the men's cars, along with knives with inscriptions in Arabic meaning "infidels" and a fake gun.
This happened when the MI5 secret service officer placed a listening device in the car.
"Recent attacks have shown the panic the defendants could have caused if they had not been stopped," said Sue Hemming from the prosecutor's office.
Three of the men sentenced are aged 28, 25 and 33, and they may file for release after 20 years.
The fourth convict is 38 years old, and can make the request after 15 years behind bars.
During the trial in London, the men claimed that they were innocent and that the MI5 agent planted the weapons found in the car.
The court also heard their claims, but the defendants' allegations were dismissed.
Thursday was the hottest day of the year.
38.3°C was recorded in Hodonín.
Tuesday's record temperature of 37.3 degrees Celsius only stayed in the top spot for two days.
When 38.3 degrees Celsius was recorded in Strážnice, Hodonín, Thursday surpassed the previous peak, making it the hottest day this year.
This was confirmed by the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute.
Elsewhere, however, many of the temperature records set on Tuesday did not fall on Thursday.
On Tuesday, records were beaten or matched in 35 of the 145 meteorological stations, which have been measuring the weather for over 30 years.
Only nine long-term measuring stations saw new record temperatures set on Thursday.
For example, in Strážnice the temperature during the day on Thurday was the same as the previous record set in 2013.
In Lednice, near Břeclav, the temperature on Thursday reached 37.4 degrees, surpassing the original maximum by four tenths of a degree, and in Pohořelice near Brno the current temperature of 37.1 degrees exceeded the record by three tenths.
Both records was last broken in 2013, like in Strážnice.
In the west, it was about 10 degrees less.
The high temperatures on Thursday mainly occurred in the south and east of Moravia.
After Straznice, the biggest heat was in Dyjakovice, near Znojmo, and Brod nad Dyje, near Břeclav, where the mercury climbed to 37.8 degrees, but did not beat the record.
On the other hand, according to the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute (ČHMÚ), on Thursday the highest temperatures in western and northwest Bohemia were only about 22 degrees Celsius.
"Temperatures started growing there later in the afternoon," the meteorologists said.
According to the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute (ČHMÚ), the current heat in the Czech Republic will fade erode and there could be heavy rain on Sunday.
However, temperatures in Moravia will mostly remain high on Friday, and also on Saturday in the southeast of Moravia.
China is lacking tourists.
Beijing is losing billions because of the national visa policies.
For decades, China has been trying to exert its influence without the use of force.
It spends 10 billion dollars a year to support language schools and establish universities abroad, pushing its entertainment industry towards foreign markets and trying to attract Western tourists.
It isn't doing anything for Beijing, however.
The local state media has been talking about a plan to make tourism a driving force for economic transformation and modernisation.
However, the number of visitors grew by only 3.8 percent last year, and about 80 percent China's tourists came from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan.
Among other things, this is due to the fact that, despite all its global aspirations, the Chinese Foreign Minister does not welcome foreigners with open arms. At least this is how Christopher Balding, Professor of Economics at Beijing University, assessed the situation in the most populous country of the world in an article for Bloomberg.
One particularly indicative example is the Chinese visa policy.
Only 13 countries have visa-free entry to China, while the citizens of the others have to organise visas in advance.
As such, the Chinese offices in the US have crowds comparable to the Chinese New Year celebrations.
The visa costs 140 dollars, but if you do not want to wait in the queue for hours, you have to pay 100 dollars or more for additional services.
These kinds of restrictions create significant economic barriers.
A study by the Journal of Economics and Finance showed that the need for visas reduces the visitor numbers by 70 percent.
In 2015, only two million Americans visited mainland China, while 1.8 million Americans went to Hong Kong, which accounts for less than three percent of China's gross domestic product and is home to less than one percent of its population.
China often worsens this problem when it uses tourist activities to pursue its political goals, for example in disputes with Taiwan and South Korea.
When China restricted transportation to South Korea during a rift concerning the South Korean missile defence system, the South Koreans retaliated by avoiding China.
In May, the number of visits fell by 42 percent from the previous year, whereas in Japan the same figure grew by 85 percent.
All this affects macroeconomic stability.
According to a recently published report by the Fed (the American Federal Reserve), up to 190 billion dollars may have left China as a result of foreign trips by Chinese people, while China only gains around 35 billion dollars a year through sales of foreign currency to incoming tourists.
According to the official figures for the development of the balance of payments, last year China had a deficit of 217 billion dollars in terms of tourism, equivalent to 44 percent of the entire Chinese surplus in commodities trading.
This small number of tourists comes as a very painful blow to a country that has anxiously protected the flow of capital.
However, the above-mentioned factors are only one manifestation of more a general restraint in relation to foreigners.
In many parts of China, practically nobody has heard about immigrants.
In 2013, there were fewer than a million foreigners living in China.
In the United States, however, there are more of them living in certain cities.
Even Japan, which is not known as the crossroads of immigration, has twice as many foreign inhabitants.
Many scientific papers have shown that immigrants usually revive economic growth, entrepreneurship and innovation.
It is almost impossible to find in China, however.
Solving these problems will be politically challenging, but the first step is to simplify the visa system.
Other Asian countries, especially India and Vietnam, have recently made great efforts to simplify and reduce visa procedures.
If China wants more foreign tourists and their hard currencies, it should be easier for them to get there.
The number of deadly poisonous reptiles at Pilsen Zoo has increased.
At the Království jedu (Poison Kingdom) in Pilsen, visitors can now look forward to seeing the young of three rare, deadly poisonous reptiles.
In the meantime, visitors can see the nine newly born Turkish vipers at the exhibition.
This species lives in northern Anatolia, at altitudes of up to 2000 metres.
"They grow up to a metre long," said Martin Vobruba, a spokesperson for the zoo.
The young of the other two species, the death adders and the red cobras, will gain strength in the breeding grounds of the garden.
We still cannot say when people will see them.
"We wouldn't want to lose them," said the carer Miroslav Dohnal, adding that it could take a year or two.
Eight Australian death adders have been born, and are the descendants of a breeding pair from the population around Sydney.
"The specimen that visitors can see in the exhibition is one of the death adders from around Perth," said Vobruba, adding that in capitivity it is necessary for death adders to hibernate for 6-8 weeks at 13 degrees Celsius.
There was a hundred percent success rate for a group of African spitting red cobras.
The pair in Pilsen Zoo hatched four babies out of four eggs.
"The incubation lasted for 65 days," Vobruba explained.
In the wild, this species shoots poison at distances of up to four metres.
If it gets into eyes, it can cause long-term blindness.
The young of all three species are fed with mice in the zoo.
The young of black mambas will be waiting to hatch in the garden for up to 40 days, as the eggs are stored in an incubator.
Tusk testifies at the prosecutor's office again regarding Smolensk.
"He should be afraid," announced brother of the dead president and leader of the Law and Justice party Jaroslaw Kaczynski at Tusk's address.
"I have nothing to fear, Kaczynski doesn't intimidate me," responded Tusk, reproaching the country's current leaders for trying to pervert justice to attack his political rivals.
As he left the headquarters of the Prosecutor's Office, according to television channel TVN 4 a crowd was waiting for Donald Tusk and chanting his name. They also wished the politician good health.
Tusk thanked them for their support and assured them his conscience was clear: "I have nothing to fear, Kaczynski doesn't intimidate me."
According to the prosecutors he isn't accused of anything, but there is no doubt that justice system is being used to serve the current Polish rulers as a tool against its adversaries, opposition or people who do not like it, and I am afraid I belong to this group.
This was his second time at the hearing.
This was the second time the ex-prime minister was interrogated at the prosecutor's office, and on this occasion he was questioned over mistakes during the autopsies of the Smolensk disaster victims.
In addition, there was discussion on bodies being changed in the coffins.
The families were forbidden to open coffins, and there must have been some reason behind it.
The reason was that they were afraid of scandal that would put pressure on Polish-Russian relations.
"Maintaining good relations at all costs, in spite of such a terrible event, should have served to make Donald Tusk very important in the EU," said Kaczyński to the Catholic television channel Trwam.
He added that a possible conflict with Russia could have affected Tusk's chances of reaching the most important seat in the Union, which Poland absolutely does not have.
Kaczynski also stated that he warned German Chancellor Angela Merkel that it might turn out differently with Donald Tusk, but she didn't pay attention to it.
Tusk endured an eight-hour examination at the Prosecutor's Office on 19 April.
He didn't testified as a suspect, however, only as a witness.
However, many people considered his summons to be part of the apparent effort of the Polish government and Law and Justice leader Kaczynski to discredit Tusk as a political rival by linking him with various scandals.
In Poland the prosecutor's office is subordinate to the Minister of Justice, who acts as the Prosecutor General.
The call for questioning came shortly after Tuska was elected the President of the European Council, which Kaczynski tried to prevent in vain, including during Merkel's visit in Warsaw.
Only Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydło protested the prolongation of Tusk's mandate at the EU summit.
In that instance Hungarian premiere Viktor Orban also left Warsaw stranded.
Burma and Senegal.
Where in the world can Czechs vote?
During the parliamentary elections this autumn, registered voters will once again be able to vote on the composition of the Chamber of Deputies from Burma, Senegal or Luxembourg.
The Czech Republic has opened up its embassies in these and several other countries since the last parliamentary elections held in 2013.
This move is intended to fulfil a decree regulating the delivery of ballot papers abroad.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has updated it, and is currently in the process of sending out reminders.
Four years ago, 10,000 Czech citizens voted abroad.
"Since the last amendment to the Decree in 2013, there have been some changes that have to be taken into account in these lists," the ministry explained.
"New embassies have been established in some countries, while certain offices have been closed or the levels of representation have changed," according to the text.
The decree contains two annexes, the first of which states the embassies that will be supplied with ballot papers.
This group of offices includes the representation of the Czech Republic in neighbouring countries, namely Germany, Poland, Austria and Slovakia.
More than one hundred Czech authorities will receive a ballot sheet to be printed.
The list of which ones is changing with the decree, however.
Four years ago, Czechs could vote at the Czech Embassy in Libya or Zimbabwe.
Both embassies are now closed.
The Czech Republic also ended its representation in Bamako, Mali and Kyoto, Japan.
People will also not be able to vote at the Consulate General in Donetsk.
That was closed by the Czech Republic in 2014 because of the war in eastern Ukraine.
New additions to the list of embassies include Nairobi in Kenya, Dakar in Senegal and Lusaka in Zambia.
Since the last parliamentary elections, the Czech Republic has expanded its representation in Asia through the Consulate General in Irbil, Iraq and Chengdu, capital of Sichuan Province.
Voting cards will also be available for voters registered at the Czech Embassies in Burma and Cambodia.
Czechs abroad have had the opportunity to choose their deputies at polling stations in embassies or consulates four times.
Before each election, the state electoral committee determines which regions' candidates can be voted for abroad by ballot.
The first time was in 2002, when it was decided among the South Moravian candidates.
In the next two elections, the Czechs voting abroad could also select South Bohemian candidates.
In 2013, the Central Bohemian Region was included as well.
The number of Czechs voting abroad is steadily increasing.
Some 3800 people voted the first time 15 years ago, then about 6700 in 2006 and 8222 four years later.
The previous parliamentary elections four years ago saw 10,571 voters come to the embassies.
I love user instructions.
One of my friends says that only quitters read user instructions.
I completely disagree.
It is a form of modern art, and often pure surrealism.
I look back with nostalgia on the distant past, when user instructions for anything were a rare phenomenon.
For example, my first gramophone only came with one sheet of paper with hieroglyphs showing how to connect certain components, all depicted through secret signs.
When an internal part broke years later, I offered the paper to a shaman who wasn't afraid to unscrew any panel.
With a grin, he advised me what the labyrinthine paper was suitable for.
It was a well-established aid during a chronic lack of toilet paper.
He playfully found the broken wire and allowed me to listen to my dear records again.
The new age brought new instructions.
Even a relatively simple fruit juicer which just needed a grapefruit pressed down on it required about ten pictures.
The drawing with a description of how to insert one piece into another was especially charming.
It came in two parts, and there was no other possible procedure.
Doing it the other way round required a considerable effort and involved breaking the plastic parts.
My contempt for instructions ended with my Seat Leon.
The 2003 production year still had a booklet with instructions for minor repairs, including replacing the indicator light.
It was simple.
After a total of three steps, the job should have been done.
Unfortunately, the author of the manual failed to state that, while the light bulb was was replaced in just three steps:
1. Remove the cover.
2. Unscrew the broken bulb and screw in a new one.
3. Put the cover back.
the bulb on the left had a problem in the form of the battery cover.
At first I expected that inserting my upper right limb into the guts of the car would allow me to find a spring or a screw so I could detach the cover easily, and then I would follow points 1-3 suggested by the thrifty author of the service book.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
That cover had no place, no space for a slender Cinderella-esque hand, let alone that of an obese Silesian.
I lost half an hour of my life with no success to show for it whatsoever.
The situation was further intensified by my wife entering the garage, summoned by the shouts and words she heard coming out of my mouth, very unusually.
"What are you doing in here?" she asked ingenuously.
My answer lasted about 90 seconds, but if I omit the vulgar terms only two publishable words remain.
I change the bulb.
"Why is it taking you so long?" she asked, taking a chance with a sentence that might have been the last of a long-running volume.
I explained the problem to her slowly, emphasising how I would torture the author of the manual, where the hot iron would burn the hand that wrote it, so that it could finally never write anything else. It was a mere introduction to the wide range of instructions from the film Witchhammer, including a specially commissioned bonfire on the knoll above Losinský castle.
"What about removing the box?" my wife hypothesised over the extrication of the battery.
In utter despair, I tried it and then steps 1-3 were as easy and fast as on the right side.
I thought that nothing could surprise me.
That was until the day I received a phone call from a colleague who was on the verge of collapse after being monitored by two officers from the State Drug Control Service.
I know him as a composed colleague who has experienced both the possible and impossible in the field and who is able to recount wild stories in an unpeturbed voice.
"Imagine being fined for not having a guide to washing your hands," he said in a feeble voice.
I gradually pieced together the whole issue, which lay in the fact that he had no pictorial instructions on how to wash hands over the washbasin on the toilet used by patient.
The argument he submitted to the committee official was that adults usually wash their hands and that there is no need for pictograms to explain a habitual procedure carried out by decent people. It did not have the desired effect on her, however, and cost him a lot of money.
"That is not the case," she told him.
He was given to understand that the simple rinsing of lathery palms with flowing water is a primitive act at the Cro-magnon level, and that modern man, Homo sapiens sapiens, must perform this ceremony in ten steps.
As such, it is necessary to inform people that they must release the water from out of the tap.
The entire process has a total of eleven stages, but at the end you are rewarded by the joyous knowledge that you have washed your hands exactly as instructed by the State Institute for Drug Control.
I have to say that by the end I was inspired and prepared a detailed plan for activities on the toilet.
In terms of defecation, the procedure is unified and doesn't cause any problems. However, due to certain differences between the sexes, with urination it is necessary to give two sets of instructions.
The problem remains the pictograms, because creating the perfect procedure requires an exact sketch of all the anatomical details, which could provoke a certain outrage among prudish toilet users, despite the fact that they can finally learn that they have been wiping their opening the wrong way their whole life.
Singer Ladislav Bubnár wounded and bleeding!
The singer is relatively new here, but you may have heard about him in June of this year, when he a huge event on Czech soil, hosted by such prominent personalities as Karel Gott, Lucie Bílá, Simona Krainová and a number of others, moderated by none other than Leoš Mareš.
The purpose was simple, to show himself to the public and to introduce his music video for the song Sara, which was launched by the aforementioned celebrities.
Few people know, however, that the shooting of the music video in Russia did not go without a hitch, and the singer Ladislav Bubnár himself had to be treated.
It was his first big shoot with the stars of the Russian national ballet, and it did not go flawlessly.
The song Sara is very emotional and is about an unhappy affair between two lovers.
To make the scenes dramatic, in the video the singer's adversary had to punch him
At one point, however, he struck him directly on the nose so hard that the young singer had to be treated by doctors.
"It was a blow I did not expect. I started bleeding immediately," Ladislav commented on the situation.
His colleagues and producers said that the situation was unfortunate and Ladislav failed to react in time.
Fortunately, the injury was serious enough to stop the shoot from continuing.
The young artist's music video is here, and you can watch the scene where he gets punched.
The unsuccessful version where he was bleeding was not used.
A young couple disappeared without a trace 12 years ago.
Their car was recently found in the depths of the Volga.
The two young Russians, Ilja Zhirnov and Kira Cherkasov, had been missing since December 2005.
An extensive search for them was carried out, but to no avail.
The police eventually ended the search because of the lack of evidence.
The families of the missing couple lived not knowing whether they would ever find out what happened to them.
Twelve years later, the story has come to an unhappy end.
A diver found the wreck of their car lying on the bottom of the River Volga in the town of Cheboksary in Chuvashia.
The police only managed to identify the couple through the documents left in the car.
The documents survived an entire decade underwater, and without them the police would have taken much longer to determine the identities of the couple found.
The couple was last seen when Zhirnov borrowed his father's car to pick his girlfriend up from work.
The diver who discovered the car remains anonymous.
Their finding was reported to the police in Cheboksary, which dragged the car onto the shore the next day.
Investigators believe that the young couple's death was an accident caused by the icy road that runs around the river.
However, the investigation is continued, and further details will be published once it has been closed.
Trump threatens the President of Mexico over the phone.
In a phone call to Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto this January, American President Donald Trump threatened that he wouldn't meet him if he publicly stated that his country would not pay for the construction of a wall between the US and Mexico.
During the conversation, Trump said that he would arrange the financing somehow, although he admitted that it would have to be secured from other sources.
Similarly, Trump also spoke openly to the Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull.
This has emerged from transcripts of the talks published by the US daily The Washington Post on Thursday.
Trump made the construction of a wall on the southern border with Mexico a major promise in his campaign last year.
In Trump's first interview with the Mexican President shortly after he took office, he undiplomatically rebuked Peña Nieta for criticising his wall-building plan.
He described the country's southern neighbour as a growing political problem, and urged the Mexican president not to publicly state that his government would never pay for the wall.
"You cannot say that to the press," Trump repeatedly urged in a discussion on 27 January, and threatened to break off contacts with the Mexican President if he continued to issue defiant statements.
He will figure out the funding somehow and it will work out eventually.
"But if you say that Mexico won't pay for the wall then I don't want to meet you anymore, because it is unacceptable to me," said Trump, according to the American daily.
He then claimed that the wall was as the least significant thing they would talk about, but politically it is probably the most important.
Trump issued the executive order to build the wall shortly after coming to power.
Mexico is rejecting the construction and financing of a 3200-kilometre-long wall, and the relations between the two countries have become critical.
At the end of March, Trump said that the United States would pay for the project.
Trump finally met his Mexican counterpart for the first time at the G20 summit in Hamburg in July.
The Washington Post also reported on Trump's phone conversation with Australian Prime Minister Turnbull on January 28.
The head of the White House said that the conversation was ridiculous.
This was the outcome of an exchange of views on the agreement that will see Australia grant asylum to Central American refugees in exchange for the United States accepting persons from internment facilities in the Pacific Island states.
At first Trump considered the deal to be absurd, but later conceded to it.
"You can certainly say that this is not the deal you created, but you will have to stick to it," Trump told Turnbull.
In some parts, the phone conversation with Turnbull was almost jovial, for example, when Trump approved of Australia's refusal to accept refugees arriving in boats.
"You're worse than me," joked Trump.
The tone of the conversation suddenly got sharper.
"I hate accepting these people," said Trump.
They're bad, I can assure you.
That's why they're in prison now.
"They're not going to be great people who go to work for the local dairy," he said.
During the conversation, he also said that a fugitive could become the Boston terrorist in five years.
Trump had telephone conversations with a large number of world statesmen at the end of January, about a week after coming to the White House. He often spoke to several leaders in a single day.
The call with Turnbull finally proved to be the least pleasant for the whole day.
Before he finished, he stressed that he had previously had a pleasant conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
Rana's killer was executed before a crowd.
Her father also watched.
The execution took place in a square in the Yemeni capital Sanaa.
Muhammad al-Maghrabi chose little Rana Almatari, who lived in his neighbourhood, as his victim.
Al Maghrabi kidnapped the girl and took her to his father's house, where he raped her and strangled her with his bare hands.
He then raped her body, which he tossed near a mosque.
The young girl's violent death affected the entire country, which is currently facing the threat of civil war.
Yahya Almatari was in the first row of a thousand-person crowd, which gathered together to witness the execution.
Muhammad al Maghrabi was condemned under Sharia law.
After the execution, the victim's father shared his feelings with the media.
I feel a new person.
It felt like a weight was lifted.
It is a new day in my life.
Other members of the family were also present, shouting the slogan "long live justice" along with the crowd.
The rapist was brought to the square in a police van, which he was then dragged out of.
The police officers tied him around his waist.
One of the members turned his weapon against him, firing a shot from the immediate vicinity.
The crowd present celebrated each round that was fired.
Mr. al Almatari told the MailOnline that justice was done in accordance with the country's legal system.
"Justice, Allah and Sharia Law have won," he added.
I stood on Liberation Square in Sanaa and waited for the execution of my daughter's murderer.
Then the whole family went to the morgue.
We took Rana's little body and buried it in a nearby cemetery.
Both my wife Jamileh and I are grateful that justice has been done.
The police were afraid that the crowd gathered in the square would succumb to hateful madness, grab the killer and lynch him.
The execution was ordered by a court under the law of the Shiite Houthis.
Maghrabi was originally sentenced to 100 lashes when he was arrested, but his actions provoked such outrage that the judge decided to apply the death penalty.
Al Maghrabi was arrested two days after the girl's disappearance on 27 June.
Rana's family knew him well.
When the police searched the cellar of his house, they found evidence that the man had planned his actions.
Mr. Almatari described him as a monster.
What could his motivation have been?
Even a beast would have been more merciful to Rana.
"Our family has no enemies, and the wounds sustained by Rana's body were awful," he told the media.
"Rana disappeared in the afternoon, and we informed the police the same day. We told the newspapers and all the TV stations, and there posters with her photo hanging everywhere," he continued.
It is generally believed the police got a tip off from the murderer's parents, who suspected their son of the atrocity.
Jamileh, the girl's mother, had to be hospitalised after she learned that her daughter's body had been found.
Rana had gone out to play with the other children in the neighbourhood.
I went to see where she was 10-15 minutes later.
We looked everywhere, but Rana was gone.
We walked around our block. Our friends took their cars and drove around, but our search was in vain.
The residents of Yemen were disgusted by the crime and began gathering in front of the police station where al Maghrabi was held, demanding immediate punishment.
A representative of the Ministry of Justice read out a report of the investigation into the crowd to appease them.
The accused apparently showed no regret for his actions.
Police officers read out the sentence just before the deed was carried out, but the convict only glanced at his executioner briefly.
The whole event was filmed for national television, but many recordings were also shared on the Internet.
The CzechTrade national commission is won by František Savov's company, who is prosecuted by the state.
The public commission by the CzechTrade state export agency was given to František Savov's publishing house Mladá fronta.
The officials gave him full points for all the qualitative criteria.
They did not mind the fact that the Czech state is prosecuting Savov for tax fraud and asking for his extradition to the Czech Republic.
The export agency of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, CzechTrade, announced a public tender for the four-year provision of editorial content for BusinessInfo in April.
The commission was awarded to entrepreneur František Savov of the Mladá fronta publishing house and has a total value of 30.8 million crowns.
However the Czech police accused him of tax evasion in 2014 and has been pursuing him in absentia.
Savov fled to Great Britain and the Czech Republic has called for his extradition.
The case was noted on the server Aktualne.cz.
According to CzechTrade's basic criteria, 60% of the decision to award the contract was based on the price offered and the 40% on the appeal and quality of the proposal.
Savov's company was substantially helped by the second criterion.
According to information from Dotyk.cz, it received 100 points in all the parts referring to the qualitative criteria.
It was this result that put it ahead of the second-best candidate, the Vltava Labe Media VLM publishing house, which offered a better price.
While Mladá fronta operated on the basis of 404,900 crowns a month, VLM offered 324,350 crowns.
Unlike Mladá fronta, however, it received below-average scores from the judges for all qualitative criteria, with a total of 62 points.
Other organisations that took part in the tender include the consulting firm BDO Advisory and the digital agency R-Media, which is part of the Economia publishing house, like the Aktuálně.cz server.
The VLM publishing company has issued several objections to the outcome of the tender, considering its assessment to be unfair and insufficiently substantiated.
After their rejection, they decided to contest the outcome with the ÚOHS Úřadu pro ochranu hospodářské soutěže (Office for the Protection of Competitions).
It believes that CzechTrade acted in violation of the law.
"The claimant is convinced that the contracting authority made the decision on the selection of a public procurement contractor on the basis of a purely subjective assessment, clearly favouring the participant Mladá fronta at the expense of the claimant and other suppliers," reads the motion for the opening of proceedings submitted to the ÚOHS this week, which was published by the server Aktuálně.
According to Michal Klíma, CEO and Chairman of VLM, the selection committee's scores appear unjustified, and the 100% evaluation of Mladá fronta by all its members extremely suspicious.
"Every independent observer must consider such miraculous success on the part of one of the competitors unlikely and suspicious," said Klima.
CzechTrade has not yet commented on the situation.
The CzechTrade agency will not comment on the public commissions until they are closed, on principle.
All the information about the above contract is lawfully published in the Profile of the contracting authority and in the public tender notice.
"A full written report will be published after the completion of the contract, but during the term of the contract we can not express our opinion about it," said Štěpán Dlouhý, media agent for Dotyk.cz.
Mladá fronta responded with a statement that it considers it extremely problematic for Economia publishing house to release an article on Aktuálně.cz relating to a competition concerning its own business interests.
However, that fact was mentioned in the article.
They may have been helped in the tender by the fact that they provided editorial services to the BusinessInfo portal for the previous four years.
The competition was first launched in 2013 when the Department of Industry and Trade was led by Martim Kuba of the ODS party.
The police accuses František Savov of tax evasion in connection with excessive VAT deductions for his companies, which caused the Czech state damages of up to 770 million crowns.
The Czech Republic has been requesting Great Britain for his extradition since 2014.
According to Savov, the person behind his criminalisation is head of the ANO movement, Andrej Babiš, whose sphere of influence includes the Mafra publishing house.
Last year a London court dismissed Savov's claim against the extradition, but the businessman appealed.
"From our point of view, the case has not moved since last year, and we have not received any notification from the UK yet," Štěpánka Zenklová, a spokesman for the Prague City Prosecutor's Office, told Aktuálně.cz.
In addition to the ownership of Mladá Fronta, Savov was part of the Harvestor Limited firm, based in Cyprus, which controlled the Samson brewery in České Budějovice, and the Cypriot company Maraflex, which is profiled as an investment fund and buys up failing businesses.
It should also control Heavier Machinery Services, formerly Legios, which owes over three billion crowns.
In the past Savov was also associated with the seizing of property from the former Socialist Youth Organisation.
A biker riding around the pavements and park and ends up flipping over.
The biker aroused attention with a reckless ride along the streets, pavements and parks in Úsovice.
When the patrol began to follow him, he decided to drive in the direction of Stanoviště.
"Police officers were combing the city very carefully when he lost control while driving on one of paths to Mariánské Lázně. He entered a field with the motorcycle, and then crashed," said police spokesman Daniel Dvořák.
Finally, a rescue helicopter had to come to the accident, and carried the injured biker to a hospital in Pilsen.
Eventually the police discovered that the biker did not have a driving license, and that the licence plate on the motorcycle had been stolen, its serial number rubbed off and the manufacturing label removed.
As such, it is possible that the vehicle was stolen.
The origin of the motorcycle is subject to further investigation.
"A breath test did not reveal any alcohol in the driver's system, but a positive result was found for methamphetamine," the police spokesman added.
Sparta midfielder Rosický: Changes are painful, but we have to keep believing.
Sixteen thousand fans were up on their feet applauding.
Tomáš Rosický goes to ground.
This was the same scene as the Sunday match against the Bohemians.
The Sparta midfielder livened up the game against Red Star Belgrade and set up several goals, but his teammates couldn't convert them in the end.
Pumped up by new multi-million reinforcements, the team from Letná ended up in the second round of the Europa League.
Was it hard to make something out of the match after the goal by Belgrade?
After the goal was scored, we needed to score four, which was difficult for us.
We wanted to avoid losing at least, so as to build up our self-confidence to get something out of it for the next match.
We had several chances.
We have to work together as a team and bring our game forward.
Why did it take Sparta so long to come into the match?
The match was terribly overworked.
Out opposing teams combinations were much better than ours.
We didn't get anywhere, and we'd only had one shot by half time.
Of course, that's very little when you have to win by two or three goals.
The second half was much better, and in the final third we managed to play at their level.
But you have to push your opponents into these positions more often.
Was the high number of changes to the configuration a problem?
Of course, this is one of the pains you have to deal with when a new team is formed.
We had only played three matches together and the configuration is still changing.
The coach needs to find the ideal 11 that fit together.
Is it encouraging for you to have played for part of two matches in a row?
They're still just parts of the match.
I myself don't know how my position will develop and when I will be able to play from the beginning.
Are you still optimistic about the changes that have taken place within Sparta?
We have to be, otherwise it doesn't work.
It's the same as with injuries.
If you don't have faith, then you can't go back.
Sparta made a decision and we have to be optimistic, otherwise the situation will be even worse.
The fans came back in large numbers, but when they left they were embarrassed.
What can you tell them?
It was another great away trip, just like with the Bohemians.
I'm really sorry that we couldn't make them happy with a better performance.
I would like to give them a reason to come to the next one.
We can thank them for coming.
They won't remember these trips when it's been 15 years since I played here.
Can a cupless season be at least an advantage for the league?
At the moment we're fighting against ourselves. We will keep playing, so it's not such an advantage for us.
An entrepreneur is facing ten years in jail for extreme tax avoidance.
The Constitutional Court dismissed a complaint from businessman Jiří Toman, who is to due spend ten years behind bars for tax avoidance.
The calculated damage amounts to 645 million Czech crowns.
In his complaint, Toman claimed that that the justice violated his fundamental rights, stating that the factual findings of the courts in Zlín and Olomouc are not entirely complete.
However, the Constitutional Judges found the complaint to be unjustified, as CTK learned from the court database.
The Constitutional Court is not a court of appeal.
"It cannot assess the factual or legal misconduct allegedly committed by the ordinary courts for a fourth time if it does not constitute a violation of constitutionally protected rights and freedoms," the resolution states.
Toman was tried as a fugitive.
The verdict took effect in November 2015, when it was confirmed by the High Court in Olomouc.
Toman was in custody in Argentina, where he was found at the time of the decision by the Constitutional Court.
The penalty imposed is in the higher end of the statutory limitations, which corresponds to the damage incurred according to the verdict.
The High Court described the case as extreme tax evasion that had a macroeconomic impact on the state budget.
The man served as Chairman of the Board of Directors for the company World Servis from 2005 to 2008.
The damages of 645 million Czech crowns only refer to the period from January to July 2008, and according to an expert the total evasion exceeded one billion.
For procedural reasons, it was no longer possible to try Toman for the full amount.
According to the charges, World Servis did not include complete invoices in its tax returns.
Instead of monthly VAT and excise duties to the order of at least tens of millions of Czech crowns, the company only paid taxes amounting to just a few hundred thousand.
World Servis and some of the companies it has done business with are related to entrepreneur Radomir Vybíral, who has been charged with 13 years in jail for VAT fraud over driving matters.
The Constitutional Court also dismissed his complaint.
Russian athletes have not had their ban on starting lifted by the IAAF.
During its congress in London, the IAAF International Athletics Federation upheld the international ban preventing the Russian athletes from starting because of the state-sponsored doping programme.
The result vote regarding the world championships, which begin on Friday, was unambiguous, as expected.
The prolongation of the ban was approved by 166 delegates, with only 21 votes opposing it.
The main reason for the rejection is that Russia has failed to meet all the requirements for the introduction of the anti-doping system, as noted by Rune Andersen, the head of the IAAF Special Investigation Group.
His group recommended that the ban be upheld.
Some older doping cases remain unresolved, as a number of suspected athletes have not yet been heard, and coaches with a compromised reputation are still working in the country.
The Russian anti-doping agency RUSADA is not yet fully operational, and does not meet the standards of the World Anti-Doping Agency.
However, RUSADA may undergo testing under the supervision of foreign experts and the British Anti-Doping Agency.
"Although progress has been made, there is still a lot of work to be done," said IAAF Chairman Sebastian Coe.
The Russian Athletic Federation was suspended in November 2015, meaning Russian athletes were not able to attend last year's Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro.
Despite the ban on the upcoming international championships, 19 Russians who have previously proved they have been tested outside of the Russian anti-doping system for a long time will participate.
However, they will not be able to start championships wearing the national colours, and in the event of a victory, the Russian anthem will not be played.
The United States are breaking apart.
The cultural and political divide between the blue and red states is widening.
California has declared a ban on its citizens traveling to Tennessee and seven other states.
The state of Tennessee has hit back and has issued a retaliatory ban on its citizens traveling to California.
Of course, this is not a ban in the full sense, and US citizens can travel freely across all 50 states.
Rather, California has forbidden spending state money for its citizens to travel to eight other states, namely Alabama, South Dakota, Kansas, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, Tennessee and Texas.
Who will stop this madness?
California is strongly pro LGBT, and any disagreement with the LGBT lifestyle is seen as discrimination.
By contrast, Tennessee has issued an exception to the law stating that if a psychotherapist has a moral issue with treating patients from the LGBT community, they are not required to provide the therapy themselves and can find the patients another therapist who does not have a problem with it.
Texas and other states have in turn adopted laws under which religious charities that are given children for adoption by their mothers are not required to give these children to same-sex couples.
Because of these conscientious objection laws, California has placed a ban on funding its citizens' journeys to eight states from its own means.
In practice, this means that Californian professors are not allowed to travel to scientific symposiums in Texas with funding from their universities, for example, because they are co-financed by the state of California.
Similarly, school sports teams cannot travel to tournaments or competitions in Tennessee, for example, with the financial support of their schools.
To fund the trips, they must either get federal grants, although it is absurd for the federal government to finance the travels of citizens from State A to State B, or else private sponsorship.
The state of Tennessee has suffered and its parliament has passed a law with a resolution that it doesn't like the Californian policies of high taxes, high government spending, high deficits and tolerance of illegal immigrants, yet it will not place an embargo on travelling to California because of it.
It is placing the embargo as retaliation for the California embargo on Tennessee.
It will do the same to any state of the Union that orders a similar travel ban to another state, whatever the reason.
At the same time, it called on the parliaments of all the states to stop this madness.
The above is all fact, and now for a commentary.
The situation is toxic.
First of all, all of this is constitutional. No part of it is unconstitutional.
States have the right to enforce conscientious objection laws, as well as to decide what their money can be spent on and what it cannot.
Secondly, what's wrong with conscientious objection?
When a butcher has a religious problem selling pork, why couldn't they just offer beef, lamb, poultry and fish?
Why should they be forced to sell pork under penalty of punishment if there are already enough butchers offering pork?
In Colorado, one baker is facing an anti-discrimination lawsuit and a high fine because he refused to bake a cake for a homosexual wedding.
But he also refuses to bake cakes for Halloween or cakes that contain alcohol.
Why punish him and not just leave him alone and let the cakes be ordered from the hundreds of other bakers?
Thirdly, the beauty of the federal system is that the constitutional rights of all federal citizens are guaranteed, but individual states can adjust their internal, domestic policies with non-federal powers, that is, according to the preferences of their inhabitants.
Then there are variety, multiplicity and diversity.
California can be California, and Texas can be Texas.
But California wants California to be California, and Texas and seven other states to also be California!
Fourthly, members of the LGBT community once legitimately fought for their lifestyle to be tolerated.
Today, many members of this community are guided by the rule of live and let live, which all reasonable people ought to follow, but some activists strive not for tolerance towards themselves and others, but for extreme intolerance towards others.
According to them, no one should ever show moral, religious or philosophical disagreement with the LGBT lifestyle, and if they do, they should be criminalised.
The mentality of these activists is totalitarian.
They are the modern enemies of freedom.
Fifth, I do not know of any situation in US history when states have done this for political reasons except this case.
States did not even impose sanctions on one another in times of struggle for civil rights for black people, where the North and West were on the side of integration, and the South on the side of segregation.
The only case was the in 1950s, and the political cause was slavery, and the war by the North against the South.
Of course, nothing like that is happening now, but the situation is still toxic.
The cultural and political divide between the blue Democratic states and the red Republican states is widening, and the US is disconnecting internally on a mental level.
Illegal agitation.
A critic of Putin received a hefty fine.
Russian opposition politician Alexei Navalny received a fine of 300 thousand roubles for violating campaign rules ahead of next year's presidential elections.
A court imposed a fine on him for calling on people to participate in unauthorised demonstrations.
Navalny has organised two large anti-government street protests over the past two months, and announced that he is setting his sights on the head of state position in March next year.
Current head of the Kremlin Vladimir Putin has not yet announced his candidacy, but he is generally expected to do so and win again.
Navalny said that the police came to his house in the morning and took him to court.
He was fined for calling people to demonstrations through videos on the YouTube internet portal.
The fine is 300 thousand.
"Later, we'll take it off the judge's salary," the Kremlin critic joked on Twitter.
The Russian electoral commission recently concluded that Navalny could not take part in the presidential elections because he was previously convicted of embezzlement.
However, Navalny, who is considered to be a fighter against corruption, believes the judgment to be politically motivated.
In addition to the 300,000 roubles, on Thursday the court also imposed fines 25,000 roubles on two members of Navalny's pre-election Team, Leonid Volkov and Nikolai Ljaskin.
Navalny entered Russian politics as an anti-corruption blogger and gradually became the dominant figured on the fragmented opposition scene.
The authorities are trying to defend themselves against Naval any way they can.
In February, he was sentenced to a five-year suspended sentence for stealing from the Kirovles forestry company.
The verdict was upheld by the Court of Appeals in May.
The ruling is so final that it prevents Navalny from nominating himself under Russian law.
Heatwave in the Czech Republic.
Teachers hose down children.
Public transport drivers carry water and wear summer clothes.
The 35 children who attend the Na Chodovci kindergarten in Prague 4 are only able to go outside in the morning.
The school has just been renovated and the recently planted trees do not provide much shade yet.
There is no pool there, but the teachers cool children down with a sprinkler.
In the afternoon, the children stay in the classroom, where the blinds and curtains are drawn.
They also try to cool down the air with a purifier as they do not have air conditioning.
It is challenging for both the teachers and the cooks.
"The indoor and outdoor temperatures exceed the hygienic limits for kindergartens, so we should not really have been operating at that time," said Miloslava Makovičková, the school director.
There is a glass corridor in the nursery where the temperature reaches around 40 degrees.
We ventilate in the morning around 6:00. We close the windows and we have blinds on the southern sides that protect us.
"But it doesn't help much," she added.
There are better conditions at the Na Hrázi forest kindergarten in Hostivice, where children spend most of their time outdoors.
We have fully grown trees on the land, so we can stay underneath them.
"We have a beautiful walnut tree with a table under it, and we do different things there," said Barbora Kompanová, the director of the kindergarten.
Teachers try to go into the woods with the kids, where there is a more shade.
The children wear damp caps and there are various kinds of water sports on the schedule.
"We have a hand-operated sprinkler that is used for spraying flowers, and we use it for showering the children," said Kompanová.
Jitka Vilimovská, the headmaster of the nursery school in Novoborská ulice in the Prosek area of Prague, said that teachers are trying to keep the children in the shade and sprinkle them with water.
"We have a fairly developed garden, so they can stay under the trees," she said.
The go outside in the morning and then after 15:00.
Every child must have something covering their head.
Teachers also remind children that they should drink.
For example, they can choose between slightly sweetened tea or diluted juice, and they drink water in the garden.
They also eat green salad every day, and their snacks always include fresh fruits and vegetables, which sometimes brought by their parents.
"For example, one mum brought about a ten-kilo melon for the kids today," Makovičková added.
Drivers receive water or a summer uniform.
The DPP transport company in Prague is providing them with water, ionised drinks or summer uniforms on hot days.
The tram and bus drivers' cabins are air conditioned in most cases, said DPP spokeswoman Aneta Řehková.
In addition to the cabins, the passenger compartments of some trams are also air conditioned.
The tram tracks have not been seriously damaged by the high-temperatures.
Small damage occurred in a circuit in Hostivař.
At the current high temperatures, we must pay particular attention to make sure that a sufficient number of drinks are available to the drivers.
"Chilled drinking water is available on all routes, exchange points and depots," said Řehková.
At some depots and exchange points, workers also have access to so-called "sodobars", which dispense cold soda.
Drivers also receive soluble ionic beverages as a preventive measure.
"They can also wear a summer uniform, which makes drivers more comfortable during their daily shifts," the spokesperson added.
The hot, dry weather of the past few days has resulted in an increased number of fires.
On Tuesday, firefighters throughout the Czech Republic extinguished 108, which is twice the daily average.
During the day on Tuesday, when temperatures in the Czech Republic climbed above 35 degrees Celsius, firefighters were mainly engaged in putting out fires.
"There are an especially high number of fires in the natural environment, which are associated with wildlife," said firefighter spokesperson Nicole Zaoralová.
The firefighters were not even brought any relief evening by the changes in the weather in the evening, as in many places the heat was replaced by storms and torrential rain.
Firefighters attended to 236 incidents in connection with thunderstorms.
In particular, many of the calls required them to remove fallen trees and branches.
"Central Bohemian region was most affected," Zaoralová continued.
However, the help of firefighters was also required in Stvolinek, Česká Lípa, where 60 people from the children's camp had to be evacuated to safety because of the storm.
The tropical temperatures also created work for rescuers in Prague.
On Tuesday and on Wednesday night, ambulances were called out to dozens of cases of carbon monoxide poisoning from boilers.
As such, people should have their water heaters checked, rescue services warned.
Carbon monoxide is a colourless, odourless gas that is released through incomplete combustion.
Symptoms of poisoning include nausea, vomiting, headaches and fainting.
In case of suspected poisoning, you should leave the affected room.
The husband of an MEP was hit by a car in Brussels.
He was picked up by a special government plane.
The government special plane brought the injured Róbert Žitňanský to Bratislava on Wednesday afternoon.
There were two ambulances waiting at the airport, and he constantly monitored by Slovak doctors while on board the plane.
The long planned flight went without complications.
According to TV JOJ, Robert Zitnansky had a serious accident in Brussels at the beginning of summer.
He is said to have been hit by a car, and has been in serious condition since then.
After being transported to his homeland, he was transported to a specialised department in one of Bratislava's hospitals.
The economic analyst is the husband of Slovak MEP Jana Žitňanská from the NOVA party.
She did not want to comment on the incident.
The couple has three children together.
Brazen Mesarošová: Silicone and cellulite seeping out of her overalls!
During hot summer days, it's tempting just to wear the bare essentials that cover the most intimate places.
Dominika Mesarošová did the opposite, however.
At an afternoon encounter at Prague Zoo, swarming with actors, moderators, singers and everyone involved with TV Prima, she covered her body in a mini overall.
All it took was a few normal moves for the model to show everyone her silicon and even her behind.
Her overalls cut into her thighs several times, plus she was so tall that she had to keep adjusting them.
She was certainly not lacking the attention of the gentlemen and photographers present.
Plane makes an emergency landing on the beach.
A man and a little girl die.
The accident occurred at Praia de São João Beach in the Costa da Caparica region, about 30 kilometres south of Lisbon.
One witness told the SIC Noticias TV channel that the plane landed just above people who were sunbathing on the beach.
Some of the people on the beach reportedly ran into the sea to flee the danger.
Unfortunately, two people failed to escape the plane.
A 50-year-old man and an 8-year-old girl died on the beach according, to local media.
"The plane crashed and they were dead on site," stated police chief Pedro Coelho Dias.
Their nationalities are not yet known.
There were two people on board the plane, both of whom left it alive and were taken by police for interrogation.
D11, or how not to build a motorway.
Can the motorways in the Czech Republic ever be finished?
Here's a puzzle for you.
It is unfinished, even though construction started in 1978.
Even though it hasn't materialised, it is constantly being repaired.
It can't be built, even though it has a building permit.
What is it?
Yes, that's right, motorway D11 to Hradec Králové.
Construction on another section of it has recently halted by the Děti Země (Children of the Earth) movement for at least several months.
We Eastern Bohemians are getting our motorway in pieces, like cutting slices off a salami.
One round is sliced and then we have to wait and see if and when we'll get another.
We're not asking for miracles, though.
We just want to shorten driving times and to divert trucks going to or from Poland away from villages and towns.
The endless streams of trucks go straight through the towns like Jaroměř or Náchod, which cannot be reasonably avoided.
The final stretch of our dream motorway was begun in 2008, that is, an unbelievable nine years ago.
Since then, there hasn't been a modicum of progress.
Therefore, when construction began on the remaining four kilometres of the incomplete section to Hradec Králové and an archaeological survey was carried out other sections by Jaroměř, with works due to begin at the end of this year, you could hear corks being popped loudly in Eastern Bohemia.
At this point, nobody believed it however.
Last week it was announced that construction will not take place this year.
And maybe not next year either.
Děti Země, an organisation from Brno fighting for sustainable transport, has put a halt on the works.
Děti Země is repeating its tactics from D1.
They opposed the decision to grant the building permit in its entirety.
They are demanding a review of all the binding opinions already issued by all authorities involved.
For example, these include the City of Hradec Králové, the Ministry of the Environment, but also the Ministry of Defence and the Railway Authority.
Meanwhile, not far from D11 we come across the village with the expressive name of Pohřebačka.
We drive down, we simply continue along the motorway and all of a sudden we find ourselves on the side road next to it so we can join the line of traffic.
The worst part is that you can see similar stories across the country.
There's the terrifying, constantly clogged road to Benešov, the D1 or D8 motorways.
Everyone has their own Pohřebačka.
What did Děti Země request?
What is the at the heart of the problems with road construction in the Czech Republic?
And why is motorway network practically impossible to finish within the current system?
Read more in the new edition of Reflex.
Fire breaks out in Kolín.
Dozens of firefighters arrived on the scene, assisted by a helicopter.
At 14:00 a fire broke out not far from Český Brod in the Kolín region, between Bylany and Liblice, burning approximately 15 hectares.
The fire stopped spreading around 15:15, and the firefighters declared a level three alarm out of a possible four.
According to the firefighter's spokesman Ladislav Holomcík, a helicopter helped to put out the fire from the air.
At 18:00 the firemen managed to extinguish the fire, which caused damages amounting to 700,000 Czech crowns.
Dozens of both professional and volunteer firemen fought the blaze on the spot.
The blaze was caused by a technical defect in the engine compartment of a combine harvester.
A helicopter helped to extinguish it by delivering six loads of water.
"The handed over the site of the incident to the owners, and it will be watched over by a volunteer fire brigade until 8:00 tomorrow," Holomčík said today.
Police charge three people, one of whom is a minor.
The police have charged three men with the setting up fire to a precious wooden church in Třinec-Guty, Frýdek-Místek on Wednesday.
One of the accused is a juvenile, and all three are Czech nationals.
Punishment for the crime could be as much as 15 years imprisonment.
Moravian-Silesian police chief Tomáš Kužel told journalists today.
In his view, it was a deliberate crime.
"It is a very fresh matter, and the police are currently working on the motive for the whole incident," said Kužel.
He stated the police would discuss the possibility of taking the accused into custody.
He could not disclose any further information.
"At present, I can't tell you any more about it because the Criminal Police and Investigation Service are working on things, as is the state prosecutor, who is supervising the proceedings," said Kužel.
The wooden church of the "Body of God" in Gute dates back to the 16th century
It was a valuable monument with many original decorations and paintings from the first half of the 16th century.
The tangible damages will amount to tens of millions of Czech crowns, but the historical loss is incalculable.
Questions were raised about the restoration of the church shortly after the fire began.
The majority of the costs should be covered by the insurance policy, and the Ministry of Culture and the municipality are ready to pay extra costs. A public collection is also being prepared, and they are counting on contributions from the landowner, which is the local parish.
The similar 16th century wooden church of St. Catherine in Ostrava-Hrabová was also destroyed a fire 15 years ago.
At that time, it was caused by an electrical installation.
An exact copy was created in its place.
The state is counting on its citizens to defend the country.
It will support their training.
By offering financial support for the state-sponsored organisations, the aim of the law on citizens' preparedness for defence of the state is counting on voluntary shooting training, or teams of trainers.
The Ministry of Defence, which has been assigned the role by the government, promises to improve the physical fitness and capabilities of the Czechs, so that they could then be used in crisis situations.
This results from the proposal prepared by the ministry.
Were the law to be adopted in the future, the state would spend hundreds of millions of crowns to support its defence.
According to its authors, the basic aim of the proposal is to create an effective system that would help to make Czech Republic's population better prepared to defend the state, outside of military duties and on the basis of voluntary activities.
For example, the state would support ham radio, shooting or dog training societies financially or materially, boosting the capabilities of their members.
In return, it would get information about people who are willing to come to the country's aid in times of crisis, and about their abilities or material equipment.
Accredited instructors would also be available to assist the associations and other interested parties in the training or education.
It also includes the organisation of talks with war veterans or people who have acted heroically.
One of the possible options envisage a new office that would be created to administer and coordinate the project.
The authors of the proposal stress that people's participation would be voluntary, and that the state would only use their skills if a state of emergency was declared.
"The whole concept must respect the gradual elimination of the previously clear boundaries between the different types of threats," the proposal states, referring to the danger of so-called hybrid threats.
Ministry clerks noted that it was therefore necessary to focus on supporting the widest possible range of capabilities, and not just military skills.
"The basic aim of the proposal is to create a very broad foundation that will enable every citizen to respond properly in the event of situations that endanger the sovereignty, lives, health or property of individuals, to protect themselves or to contribute to the protection of others, and not to perform the tasks of the armed forces of the Czech Republic," the proposal specifies.
Adopting the law would necessitate considerable financial demands.
The exact amount depend on the option chosen, according to the Ministry.
For example, the department envisages up to 100 million crowns being provided as financial support for projects to prepare citizens to defend the state.
If an administrative and coordination centre were to be established, its operation could cost about 60 million crowns a year.
More money would be required to pay wages or create an IT system.
The proposal also suggests that the regional military headquarters should to expand, employing a total of 42 more soldiers.
Ministry officials previously stated that the law would also help resolve the certain Czech politicians' objections to the introduction of the European Union directive concerning the possession of arms.
If adopted, it would allow gun enthusiasts who are part of the system to retain weapons that the directive would otherwise forbid.
Thursday becomes the hottest day
On Thursday, temperatures of 38.3 degrees were recorded in Strážnice in Hodonín, making it the hottest day of the year in the Czech Republic.
It surpassed Tuesday, which had previously been the hottest day of the year with 37.3 degrees.
The announcement was made by the staff of the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute.
Elsewhere, however, many of the temperature records set on Tuesday did not fall on Thursday.
The heatwave mainly affected Moravia, while in Bohemia it was mostly cloudy.
On Tuesday, records were beaten or matched in 35 of the 145 meteorological stations, which have been measuring the weather for over 30 years.
Only nine long-term measuring stations saw new records set on Thursday.
For example, in Strážnice the temperature during the day was the same as the previous record set in 2013.
In Lednice, near Břeclav, the day time temperature reached 37.4 degrees, surpassing the original maximum by four tenths of a degree, and in Pohořelice near Brno the current temperature of 37.1 degrees exceeded the record by three tenths.
Both records was last broken in 2013, like in Strážnice.
The high temperatures mainly occurred in the south and east of Moravia.
After Straznice, the biggest heat was in Dyjakovice, near Znojmo, and Brod nad Dyje, near Břeclav, where the mercury climbed to 37.8 degrees, but did not beat the record.
On the other hand, according to the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute (ČHMÚ), the highest daytime temperatures in western and northwest Bohemia were only about 22 degrees Celsius.
"Temperatures started growing there later in the afternoon," the meteorologists said.
According to the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute (ČHMÚ), the current heat in the Czech Republic will fade erode and there could be heavy rain on Sunday.
However, temperatures in Moravia will mostly remain high on Friday, and also on Saturday in the southeast of Moravia.
A malady has spread here.
It isn't enough for billionaires to have the same voice as other mere legal adults in the country during elections.
They want to adjudicate directly, and because not all of them are as bold as Andrel Babiš, who wants to own the state, they buy political parties.
Along with other colleagues behind Martin Burda and Antonín Fryč, Penta owner Marek Dospiva sponsors Robejšek's Realisty.
The second life of the Občanské demokratické aliance (Civic Democratic Alliance) is funded by insurance company owner and real estate entrepreneur Pavel Sehnal, who is also its chairman
Convicted corrupter and Czech gambling king Ivo Valenta bought up the Strana soukromníků (Freeholder Party).
The Agrofert political movement, as the project by Andrej Babiš unintentionally named by the Mayor of Kroměříž Jaroslav Němec, deserves a whole chapter for itself.
The Starostové a nezávislí (Mayors and Independents - STAN) recently acquired their own billionaire.
The man in question is Dalibor Dědek, owner of the security equipment company Jablotron.
In his own words, he entered politics to do good.
Dědek's entrance in mayoral colours did not get off to a good start, however.
"I never dreamed of small targets," he said at a press conference.
Which is to say that my goal is for the ANO movement, the Starostové movement to get 20 percent in the elections.
Various people smiled to themselves.
Dědek's slip of the tongue is rather symptomatic, however.
Millionaire Dalibor Dědek is a man of strong opinions.
Although he intends to run for election for the Starostové, he continues to support Andrej Babiš.
Dědek supported Babiš in the last parliamentary elections.
"Babiš is not a seasoned speaker and cannot handle the lively rhetoric of political snakes," he wrote about him before the 2013 elections.
He certainly is not going into politics because he wants to improve himself personally.
Babiš will remain a hero to me.
He is willing to step out of his world, which he has under control, and do something for all of us.
Shortly after the Starostové introduced him as a new reinforcement, he professed his admiration for Babiš once again.
He said he wanted the Starostové to learn to imagine a possible collaboration with Babiš.
Some people may appreciate the fact that Dědek sticks to his opinions and stands up for himself, no matter what team colours he is wearing.
Others may speculate whether Babiš is sending someone so awkward to the Starostové to create a second rate version.
Others still may ask whether the boss of Jablotron parted ways from the boss of Agrofert as part of a bad business deal, and is now looking for another way to defend himself against his business rival.
Dědek's first public appearances did not all revolve around Babiš, however.
Dědek promised to send the Starostové ten million crowns for the campaign.
And when they say they need more money, he will send more.
A few years ago, it would have been very hard for someone to take exception to such a statement.
Indeed, before the 2010 elections the legally recognised crook Zdeněk Bakala gave away millions to all the parties.
The political division of Vit Bárta's security agency, TOP 09, and the Civic Democrats came together for nearly thirty million.
We are now living in different times, however.
The law forbids anyone to give more than three million to a political party.
When Dědek entered politics, he could at least have studied the rules of the game.
Perhaps then he would not have had to ask why politics has such a bad reputation in our country.
Dědek's first days in politics were topped off with a proposal to give tax benefits to families with children who are studying.
People with a university education earn about 50,000 crowns per month in our country.
Those with only basic education earn less than 20,000.
Someone earning 50,000 is rich under the local conditions.
Those earning 20,000 are poor.
In Dědek's view, the poor pay taxes fairly, and the rich should enjoy the benefits of the welfare state, in which they participate very little.
In short, rich people must be helped so that they do not have to face poverty.
The Starostové can congratulate themselves for their new acquisition and Babis is rubbing his hands.
Thanks to Dědek, the rest of us can confirm the fact that billionaires are not good people.
The question remains of who to vote for.
To my mind, it should be those who know the rules of the game and want to follow them.
It should be the people who don't employ their own party members or citizens of the state and who don't own parts of the country.
Finally, it should be the people who want everyone to live well in a rich country, and not just the few.
Nobody wanted Trump's paradise.
He had to reduce the price of his villa complex by 234 million.
Selling real estate isn't always easy.
Often, it isn't even helped by having 11 bedrooms and a wonderful view of the sea, or by the fact that the property is being sold by US President Donald Trump.
When selling the Le Chateau des Palmiers villa complex, the price had to be reduced by a staggering £8 million.
The Mirror.co.uk reported on the sale.
The brochure describing the lots states: "Sincerely, Donald J. Trump."
You missed out on a place like no other.
But not even a connection between the the real estate company and the US president could support an extreme price tag.
Donald Trump had to slash the price of his Caribbean home by an incredible £8 million.
The original price of the property was £21.5 million, but the final price dropped to £13 million.
Even after the discount, the price of the villa complex is equivalent to about 76 average apartments in the centre of Prague.
And no wonder.
It consists of amazing 5-acre estate on the Caribbean island of St. Martin, with 12 fully equipped bathrooms, 11 bedrooms, numerous dining rooms, a gym and other rooms.
It includes several buildings.
Part of the property has a swimming pool and a tennis court.
There are dozens of palms planted on the plot.
There is a wonderful view of the sea from the terrace.
According to real estate experts, the price reflected the fact that the connection with the president is not enough to attract potential buyers.
Now the estate is closer to normal property prices on the island.
Trump bought the property in 2013.
According to speculations, he is thought to have paid about £15 million.
He bought it as a rental property.
Le Chateau des Palmiers was the most expensive property on the island of Saint Martin,
but now with the new price, it is in second place.
Another property in the neighbourhood was valued at £13.5 million.
An NBA star on the green.
Curry is fighting to make the cut in California.
Despite messing up his first shot, star basketball player Stephen Curry made it through the first round between professional golfers.
The two-time holder of the record for the most-valuable NBA player took part in the Egoie Mae Classic, a lower series run by Web.com Tour in Hayward, California. He ended his first round with 74 shots and will keep fighting to make the cut.
Golden State point guard, who won his second NBA title with the Warriors this season, started very nervously, and his first shot ended up in the drink holder of a golf cart parked at the fairway.
Even after that, he was not as accurate as on the basketball court, but he had a dozen professionals behind him on the scoreboard with four-over-par.
"It wasn't the ideal way to get started, to have to call the referee right after the first shot, but then it settled down a bit," said Curry about his enormous stage fright.
I very nervous when I took the first shot of the tournament, but it was everything I hoped for.
"If you'd told me I was going to shoot 74 going into the round, I'd take that all day, every day," he added.
If Curry is able to make the cut, which is likely to be around two under par, he will become the first representative of another sport to prove themselves on the Web.com Tour.
"I want to play better next time, and now that I've got rid of the nerves, it might work," said the enthusiastic golfer, who had played in celebrity tournaments in the past, as well as mixed amateur and professional competitions.
The event in Hayward is his first time starting in a tournament that falls under the PGA.
He was granted a sponsor's exception to take part in the Ellie Mae Classic and retained amateur status.
The Web.com Tour series is one category below the elite PGA Tour.
For the first time in history, a young panda that mated in the wild has given birth in captivity.
The panda rescue programme is a huge success.
The centre is trying to expand the gene pool of pandas in captivity.
Centre worker Chang Chi-Chung told New China that panda breeding is at risk of inbreeding.
There were only 471 pandas living in captivity at the end of last year.
Only two thousand survive in the wild.
The effort to mate captured pandas with wild ones is the first step to help protect this species.
Fifteen-year-old Cao Cao was released into a nature reserve at the beginning of the panda mating season on 11 March.
Researchers could see every step she took thanks to the tracking device on her neck.
Cao Cao met her chosen mate 12 days later.
The sexual intercourse with the local male lasted for a minute and a half, and was successful.
This can also be considered a small miracle, because panda males are not generally considered to be the most successful lovers in the animal kingdom.
Males are bad at estimating the time when the female is ready, they are often confused and do not know what to do.
The baby was born healthy and, given that Cao-Cao had an extraordinary appetite during pregnancy, weighed 216 grams after delivery.
The average weight of a newborn panda is 70 grams less.
Spilková is in fiftieth place after the first round of the British Open.
Golfer Klára Spilková is ranked in 50th place after the first round of the British Open.
She passed through the course in Kingsbarns, Scotland with a score of one below par, hitting three birdies and two bogeys.
The 22-year-old Czech player is hoping that she will make the cut for the first time at a famous majors contest.
The competition with a $3.25 million prize started off best for American star Michelle Wie, who won the first round with a record of 64 putts, and a score of eight under par.
Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands are taking millions of toxic eggs off the market.
The Netherlands alone has temporarily closed 180 poultry farms because of the incident.
According to Reuters, NVWA, the Netherlands's Food Safety Authority, has examined 20 percent of all Dutch poultry, which they claim means that 80 percent of the eggs on the market are acceptable.
The authority stressed that the risk only affected a limited number of egg types, meaning that a specific number can be given.
According to German authorities, the amount of toxic substances in eggs is small and does not pose a threat to adults, but it is a potential threat to children.
Spokesman for the Czech State Veterinary Administration Petr Majer said that recently no eggs and chickens have been brought into the Czech Republic from the Netherlands and Belgium, where the authorities gone so far as to shut down farms.
However, veterinarians are taking samples of eggs and chicken meat from Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Italy, Germany and Poland, countries in which products with problematic insecticides have been found on the market.
Eggs from Belgium were last seen in the Czech Republic in April, and eggs from the Netherlands were last imported in May.
Chicken from Belgium last appeared in the Czech Republic in June.
However, there is a certain amount of chicken from the Netherlands present in the Czech Republic.
Fipronil is a substance that is is used in treatments against fleas, lice and ticks.
However, it must not be administered to animals whose meat is consumed by humans.
The World Health Organization considers the preparation to be slightly toxic.
In high doses, it causes feelings of nausea and dizziness.
Riga is amazing, I'm going to miss, said goalkeeper Sedláček as he looks for a new engagement.
I would like to play for another 10 years.
"Maybe I'll go back one day," smiled the 27-year-old Sedlacek, who could start the season in a jersey for Zlin.
It depends on whether he finds an engagement before the start of the new year.
How were the four years you spent in Latvia?
If I had to rate it like in school, then three.
I didn't play much the first year, I had an experienced goalie above me.
I was learning.
In the second year I started playing.
Before the third season I thought they would give me more space.
But they brought in a new goalkeeper, and we alternated in the role.
Last year, I assumed I would play all the time.
But we only got five points in the first ten games, so the coaches began to change things around.
My teammate ended up playing more often.
That's just how it is.
They wanted to warm him up for next season.
How was life in Riga?
Amazing.
It's a small Prague.
A beautiful, European, historic city.
I'll miss it.
I found a girlfriend there.
We've been together three years, and we'll get married next year.
So I brought something back with me.
How challenging is the KHL for goalkeepers?
The top ten teams are really high quality.
Then there are teams like us or Slovan, which have to change their playing style against them.
The other side have the skills, so you have to compensate for it with something.
That means playing more towards the rear, fighting more.
I did not see any problems in the width of the pitch.
The difference is that the Russians want to play in the empty space.
They shoot less, and even if they have a half-empty goal in front of them, they prefer to keep playing.
They shoot more in the Czech Republic.
Did you have any problems travelling and shifting between seven time zones?
If you don't have a family it's not a problem.
You can sleep in peace.
The schedule is normally arranged so that you play around four away matches and then you get two days off.
How do Latvians perceive their club in the KHL?
Like a national team.
All of Latvia follows ice hockey, it's the national sport along with basketball.
Everyone supports them.
Even when things were going badly, a lot of people would come.
Did Dinamo's activities in the KHL help Latvia to move to the quarterfinals at this year's World Cup?
The KHL has been going since 2008 and Dinamo has been there since the beginning.
Their results at the World Championships started to improve from that time.
They only just lost 1:2 in the quarterfinals against Canada at the Sochi Olympics in 2014.
It was an unbelievable result for them.
They've reached a higher level thanks to the KHL.
More and more Latvian players are setting their sights on the Czech Extraliga.
Roberts Bukarts made it to Zlín and Ralfs Freibergs is about to sign a contract.
Why is it that so many of them go there?
They're not second rate players, they're high quality.
Our local teams are looking for cheaper and younger players from abroad, Latvians included.
It's a natural progression.
The KHL starts in three weeks.
Why is it that you still don't have a position?
I knew that I wouldn't stay in Riga since the beginning of February.
So, I started looking for something.
Sparta was on the table.
But since they didn't have a budget for a goalkeeper we didn't come to an agreement.
It was classic.
We spoke to various teams that ultimately went on to sign someone else.
So now I'm training back home in Zlín and I'll wait for something to come up.
Aren't you nervous about that?
I was four years ago, when I went away and didn't know how it would be.
The current situation isn't exactly ideal, but on the other hand it means I can spend some time at home.
I did some playing in the KHL, so I see it differently now.
The question is when and where I'll sign.
How likely is it that you'll start the new year in Zlín?
Anything could happen.
We'll see how things stand in a month.
Now all I can do is wait to see what my agent arranges.
Do you have a preference for a particular competition?
Given how last season went, I'm not really in a position to choose.
So I'm waiting for the phone to ring.
The government trip to Lety continues.
In January of this year I wrote about the camp at Lety, near Orlík in the article "With the Care of a Decent Manager?"
The essence of the problem remains the same, and so I'll refer to the key passage of the article.
There has been talk about the camp in Lety for many years.
For the readers who do not know exactly what's going on, it's probably best if they look at the official cultural heritage site of Pietní místo Lety, for example.
There, at the beginning of the historical overview, it states that the camp lay two kilometres east of the village of Lety, that it served as a labour camp from 8 August 1940, as a displaced persons camp from 1 January 1942 and became a Roma camp on 2 August 1942.
The text below this goes on to describe life in the camp, including inhumane conditions, until March 1943, when Lety's first prisoners were assigned to the Auschwitz transport.
On 4 May 1943, 370 people were transported to the extermination camp.
The overall total was 420.
It is a very sad history of enormous suffering on the part of human beings caused to them by human beings and perverse ideology.
There is no question about the need to remember these events constantly.
There is also no question that the remembrance should take place at the memorial located in the place where these people suffered.
The problem lies elsewhere.
During socialism, the camp was slightly forgotten about, and in the 1970s a pig farm was built near and on the part of the former camp.
The history of the camp was accidentally discovered in 1992 by American Paul Polansky, and a memorial was erected at Lety in 1995.
In the mid-1990s, the government promised to buy and demolish the pig farm, but so far it has not happened.
In 1998, the monument was declared a cultural monument and since 2009 its administration has been governed by the Lidice Memorial.
In July 2013, the UN Human Rights Committee called on the Czech Republic to close the pig farm.
These are facts about the camp's post-war fate in brief.
At least, that was until autumn of this year, when the government approved the purchase of the pig farm and decided to call an expert judgment to determine the price.
According to the Minister of Agriculture, the government is rumoured to buying the pig farm back after.
According to Minister of Culture Herman, "there are some figures, but I would probably upset the plans if I went to the public with them."
We'll see what the expert opinion leads to.
According to some unofficial estimates, it may amount to hundreds of millions, while according to others the price may reach up to a billion.
In any case, it will definitely not be a cheap matter.
And just a few hundred metres from the former camp is a memorial in which the state invested almost 10 million crowns in 2010.
Even if the whole transaction were funded by the UN Human Rights Committee, which obviously is not likely, in my opinion it would still be a waste of money.
Doesn't the government have other priorities?
The memorial, a solemn place of commemoration, stands there thanks to the will of history, almost in the immediate vicinity of the tragedy, and anyone who wants to can go there to pay tribute to the memory of those who suffered and were killed.
I don't see any reason to change it!
Let's just leave it as it is, and maintain the site of reverence with the utmost care.
The property, and now also the taxpayers' money, should be entrusted to a responsible person, in this case the government of the Czech Republic, to oversee it with the care of a dutiful manager.
They should at least treat it as if it were their own company.
Of course, the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Prime Minister do not represent the whole government.
However, given the aforementioned facts, I feel that the leader of the ANO movement is only using it as an empty pre-election proclamation.
This May I went directly to the place to see it.
It has a good driveway, orderly parking and replicas of the wooden camp huts.
There is an exhibition in one, and an integrated toilet with running water in another.
There is a small, outdoor amphitheater with a seating area and a view of the memorial site, made from stones placed on a slight slope.
There are a lot of flowers and wreaths.
All the attributes correspond to the meaning of this place, and are suitable and appropriate.
Archaeological research is currently taking place on the site of the original camp.
It would be reasonable to consider whether it would be possible to preserve some of the uncovered foundations, for example, and at least make them accessible in an appropriate visual manner.
Minister of Culture Daniel Herman could be focussing his efforts in this direction.
If he succeeds in pushing the government to buy a pig farm with state money, it will be just another unfortunate step in his already problematic time in the role of Minister of Culture.
Chicken skin king Láďa Hruška is facing the challenge of his life.
He wants a lesson from Pohlreich!
This multifaceted picture began to emerge thanks to the new show "Zdeňkova akademie" on TV Prima.
Hruška immediately grabbed his chance.
"Dear Zdeněk, I would like to apply to your cooking academy, because, hand on heart, I think I can learn a lot from you," he said in a video shared on social media.
And since the two of them have been quarrelling for several years, Láďa did not miss the opportunity to irritate afforded to him.
"In return, I can teach you the Znojmo way of cooking chicken meat, American cucumbers or invite you to go canoeing and show you why fried cheese is a favourite," provoked Hruška.
He's taking his participation in Pohlreich's new show very seriously.
It is time to move up a level and learn from the master.
"It's question of being a chef," he told Blesk.
Pohlreich did not comment because he was filming new episodes of his next show "Ano, šéfe!"
Prima has only reacted to Hruška's participation in the cooking academy by treating the whole thing as his personal activity outside of television.
Hruška dealt a severe blow to Pohlreich in December 2004 with his first recipe.
Within a few days, he had sold over 300 thousand copies!
The new show, which Prima presented yesterday at a press conference on the autumn broadcasting schedule, is a fully fledged cooking school.
Pohlreich selects his pupils from the audience, and will introduce them to 12 different cooking techniques across 12 episodes.
In the last episode of his show "Teď vaří šéf" in November 2014, Zdeněk had a crossed-out pear ("hruška" in Czech) ironed onto his shirt.
If my face was there, I would laugh a lot.
"I just smile over the pear - pears are healthy and full of vitamins," said Láďa.
He has his own thoughts on Láďa's cooking.
"Cooking according to Láďa Hruška isn't even considered at home, because I don't let gastropunks in my home," the chef said clearly.
I highly appreciate Zdeněk Pohlreich, even if he things I make chicken with honey.
His recipe does not appear in my show, however," Hruška said, unforgivingly.
He's a moron!
If you ask me, he's no chef, he's a TV clown.
"He's gastronomically illiterate or an imbecile," Pohlreich said of Hruška at one of the presentations.
"I'm not going to throw my arms about like a 20 year-old, but I'm not going to try and resolve it any more," said Hruška, in response to the score of verbal insults.
Young woman gets stuck in a swamp at Lake Mácha and the police wade in after her.
The girl set off to the beach at around 2 o'clock in the morning on Sunday.
Instead of swimming, she got trapped in the wetlands.
When she decided to call the police with her mobile phone, she had just 12 percent of battery left.
"Because of that, the police soon lost contact with her," shared police spokesperson Ivana Baláková.
Several police patrols went to the site she described, but finding the young woman was no easy task.
"Some of the police officers had to wade through reed marshes for hundreds of metres before they felt the ground under their feet again," stated Baláková.
And yet she was still missing.
The police officers orientated themselves according to the direction of her call for help.
"In order not to miss this connection at least, they agreed with her that they would count out loud," the spokesman said.
Police found the woman at 4:15 in the swamps of Borny.
She was at the end of both her physical and mental strength, and showed signs of hypothermia.
As a result, she was taken to the Českolipská hospital by ambulance.
Is there a link between Dědka and STAN?
From sought-after bride to sales girl.
There's a touch of irony involved.
With his web project hledameslusny.cz, it seems like the billionaire would essentially like to tell voters that STAN is suffering from a lack of suitable people.
And he also stated that the politically disparate group of lesser-known mayors and independents does not actually have a nationwide programme for the parliamentary elections.
After an interview with Dědek, its electoral candidate will be a proper person, whatever their political opinion.
Vít Bárta also started once, and it did not work out well.
In his pursuit of decent people and personalities that will potentially replace some of the mayors as candidates, as even Gazdík conceded, Dědek is also dismissing the favourite argument of the head of STAN that the movement's greatest value lies precisely in the political scrutiny and experienced of the mayors, who are traditionally the most popular politicians, an idea also confirmed by the polls.
They are now being casually replaced the newly acquired unknown figures.
Gazdík explained the total break with the KDU, after which STAN changed its logo and slogan, by claiming the movement does not want to waste its identity on KDU candidates.
However, if STAN's identity was only doubted by a few people, the simple identity game has ended with Dědek's arrival on the scene.
Gazdík has not only defined himself against Andrey Babiš's ANO party for a long time, in their first joint press conference Dědek, who publicly praises Babiš, stated: "My goal is for the ANO movement, the Starostové movement, to gains 20 percent in the upcoming elections."
Let's hope that the movement didn't take it the wrong way.
Dědek is a successful entrepreneur and billionaire, and certainly not by chance.
He often talks about politics just like Babiš, but unlike him he does not his his own political brand.
For some time now, STAN has been acting more like a reality show than a real political party, and Dědek's helping hand seems to be making a shop assistant out of a sought-after bride.
STAN went with TOP 09 for a while, then with the KDU and it is now looking for appropriate people to make a change.
Let's hope they click with someone.
Police dogs trained in helicopter flights in Most
Dogs specialised in hunting explosives and search dogs were trained in a helicopter flight over Most lake today.
Police dogs must not be cowardly or scared of flying, said Petr Tomášek, head of police cynologists for the Ústí nad Labem region.
Police dog training takes around two years.
At Most, previously educated dogs were trained like adults, and those who are not yet trained just passed by.
In addition to the standard training, which involves being exposed to specimens of explosives around the lake and looking for a lost figurine, all 12 animals had to board the helicopter and fly over the lake.
The main purpose of the exercise is to test the dogs in the helicopter.
The dogs had to get to work to as soon as the helicopter landed so that they didn't have problems with it moving.
"The helicopter lands, then the dog goes and starts searching immediately," said Tomášek.
Dogs that that are upset or unable to start working as the helicopter flies are excluded from training.
"They are usually kept in the garden by the handlers, for example," Tomas added.
The police have 76 dogs with different specialties in the Ústí region.
German shepherds are the dominant breed, but there are also a growing number of Belgian shepherds.
The handlers take care of them from the time they are puppies.
"They raise them alone, preparing the dogs for the service they will perform for us," Tomášek added.
The animals undergo repeated veterinary tests to reveal any possible health issues or disabilities.
If the dog is healthy and not timid, they take the first test at 20 months.
"It takes about two and a half to three years to get a precise aim," Tomášek added.
Their time in the police service depends on the dog's health.
Most of them remain for around 8 to 10 years.
They generally live with their handlers.
Unique brewery brews beer once again.
The newly revived brewery is back serving up good beer.
The passion and honesty of the new owners brought the brewery in Lobeč u Mšena back to life a few years ago.
The brewery was first commemorated in 1586 and has Renaissance foundations, and in the nineteenth century it was converted into a train depot.
This was followed by years of prosperity, when the brewery was especially famous for its dark beers.
Unfortunately, production was stopped during World War II and the brewery was nationalised in 1984.
After that, the buildings served as state property.
The demolition work was finished by the owners of the brewery after 1989.
The abandoned site was devastated and stripped for building materials.
However, in 2007 new hopes emerged in the form of new owners, architects Jana and Pavel Prouza.
They began to repair the buildings with utmost respect for the spirit of the property, down to the smallest detail.
They devoted themselves to carefully studying archive documents in an attempt to retain the original materials and building elements.
The brewery has the same look as it did in the nineteenth century, when its golden era began.
Their work has been rewarded by a declaration from Ministry of Culture proclaiming the brewery to be a cultural monument, and the building has also become part of the European Industrial Heritage Trail.
In 2015, they festively revived the tradition of beer brewing.
If you want to sample a great beer from Lobeč in the scenic countryside around Kokořín, you can visit the pub in the brewery grounds.
When brewing the beer, they use water from the protected landscape area of Kokořín, malt from the fields in Lobeč and hops Žatec.
In the beer you, you can taste traditional light lager as well as dark beers and specialties.
Don't miss out on the tour of the brewery, which is held on Saturdays and Sundays at midday and 13:30.
The largest defensive fortress in Czechoslovakia?
One of the largest fortresses of its kind in the world?
This unique building was supposed to be the Stachelberg fortress between Trutnov and Žacléř, at the top of the ridge of terrain above the village of Babí.
Originally, it should have been formed of up to 12 bunkers connected by a cavernous underground area.
This was where the headquarters, barracks, ammunition, supplies, power generator, engine room and hospital would have been.
However, the Munich Agreement put an end to it.
In less than a year, it was only possible to build a single massive reinforced concrete bunker and the underground spaces cut off.
Thanks to enthusiasts from the Stachelberg society, who started to reconstruct the unique building in the early 1990, you can also see it for yourselves.
Seventy five percent of the underground area is already accessible!
In addition to the T-S 73 infantry cabin with an exhibition and the underground area, there is also an armed light fortification building, two deployed infantry cabins, trenches and a nature trail by "Opevněné Trutnovsko".
Refreshments, a homey alcove and breathtaking views of the region are guaranteed!
This unique and amazing Czech building has been on a list alongside such sights as the Great Wall of China, Trajan's harbour near Rome, or the Assyrian palaces in Nineveh and Nimrud.
The Chotěšov Monastery dates back to the beginning of the thirteenth century, and today it mainly consists of a stately four-wing convent building overlooking an exquisite garden.
Unfortunately, the list it belongs to is that of unique buildings that are in danger of collapse.
However, its devotees do not want to give up, and a lot of events are being held to support the monastery.
One of them is the annual dinner for the Chotěšov Monastery, which will take place on Saturday 5 August. Vladimír Mišík amd Ivan Hlas will perform, you can see fencing duels and look at the amazing huge buildings, which are usually inaccessible.
Above all, you can enjoy the atmosphere of this incredible place.
Do you want to look a Neanderthal in the face?
The exhibition Vítejte u neandertálců (Welcome to the Land of the Neanderthals) in the Anthropos Pavilion of the Moravian Museum in Brno is beckoning visitors to go an unusual excursion into the deepest prehistoric times right back to the Stone Age and the world of our ancestors.
You will find out how the Neanderthals were able to cope perfectly with all sorts of extreme climate conditions, especially with the alternation of ice and inter-glacial ages.
Despite their simple material culture, they were extremely successful as the predators of their time.
You will also learn about their appearance, their anatomy, their technological and hunting skills, as well as their aesthetic sense.
You wouldn't call them Neanderthals?
Let yourself be convinced in Brno.
The fourteenth KELT & WORLD MUSIC festival is held on Saturday the 5th in Veveří castle.
In addition to excellent music, you'll see a Celtic village being built and experience the Celtic lifestyle, including crafts, games for children and adults, divination, magic and ritual body painting.
Don't miss La Quadrilla with Irish and Scottish dances, drum jamming, bagpipe playing and a terrific fire surprise presented by Carpe Nocte.
How does the Moravian-Silesian region taste?
The seventh anniversary of the famous gastro-festival "Jak šmakuje Moravskoslezsko" (How does the Moravian-Silesian Region taste) takes place on Saturday 5 August 2017, in the mountain spa area of Karlova Studánka.
The cooking will be provided by chef Miroslav Kalina, and you can sample culinary specialties and regional food and enjoy a musical and dance performance. There is also rich programme for children including creative workshops, theatre, a bouncy castle, a Smurf prize pathway and, of course, a number of competitions.
Identify plants with one click.
Students with a herbarium and ordinary plant lovers will be helped by the new free Pl@ntNet app.
Whenever someone is interested in which plant they have just encountered, they can find out about it from the application.
All they have to do is take a photo of the plant and the application will recognise the species.
The new application is available for both iOS and Android, and was presented on Tuesday by a representative of the CEEV Centra etické a environmentální výchovy (Centre for Ethical and Environmental Education) in Horský Park in Bratislava, as part of the Tajný život města (Secret Life of the City) project.
The project also involved pupils from 50 Czech and Slovak schools, who took pictures of plants from their surroundings with their teachers to add to the application database.
The newly created French application is free to download from the Tajný život města website.
The main goal of French programmers was to encourage as many people as possible to contribute their images to the app, thereby increasing the number of plants it can recognise.
"Children can go out into the forest with a tablet or mobile phone in their hands," said Ivana Poláčková, the coordinator of the project.
Starting from sufficiently high quality photos of a flower, leaf or fruit, the app can find its name in a few seconds, which will then appear under the photo in both Czech and Slovak.
The French allowed the application to be translated into Slovak and Czech as part of the Tajný život města project.
As such, users are welcome to add plants that do not yet appear in the database once they have created an account.
"The French will determine whether it is useful and then add it to the database," said Poláčková.
Who will explain the sanctions?
Does the political penalty have broadly understandable rules?
Donald Trump approved the anti-Russian sanctions.
The day before, the US imposed sanctions on Venezuelan President Madura.
And the day before that, Trump wrote that China is doing nothing about the North Korean threat and that it can't go on.
His concept of sanctions is slightly wet behind the ears.
These things can't be lumped together.
Madura's Venezuela has indeed set out on the road to dictatorship, even totalitarianism.
China is just not behaving in the way the American president would like.
Russia is a whole chapter in itself.
But if anyone wanted to sum it all up so that even a common voter, whether American, European or other, would understand what the system of rules and the sanction policy are based on, it would be almost impossible.
With the sanctions against Russia, President Trump is only following through on what President Obama put into place. He is simply the one to give them the official stamp.
So why such a fuss?
Last year, Europe was frightened that if that American elections went in favour of Trump, he would embrace Putin and remove the sanctions.
It was a terrible prospect.
In practice, the opposite turned out to be the case, however.
Trump has not relaxed the sanctions, but actually tightened them.
But Europe is even more scared.
German Minister Zypries says that Trump's sanctions violate international law.
Are the sanctions approved by the UN Security Council really kosher?
But then, the EU's anti-Russian sanctions aren't kosher either.
European Commission chief Juncker is once again complaining that Trump's sanctions are threatening the EU's energy security.
Does that mean that only sanctions that are too weak to threaten anyone should be used?
The common voter is left in the dark.
For three years they heard that the fate of anti-Russian sanctions depends solely on the fulfilment of the Minsk agreement concerning Ukraine.
It is understood that it is actually about the EU's energy security.
The voter is more in the dark than ever.
Russia is penalised for meddling where it shouldn't.
China is berated for not meddling enough.
The Venezuelan President is punished for building a dictatorship within the borders of his own country.
All these punishments and considerations have their own rationality.
But can anyone see a system, order or rule?
Andrej Babiš: I will not consider cooperation with Okamura.
Andrej Babiš got married, toured the Republic with his visionary book and finalised the electoral programme.
Except for the Pardubice Region, all the candidates have already been prepared.
To use his own words, he did not interfere with them in any way.
He even agreed to allow "hejtman" (marshall) and Shadow Education Minister Ivo Vondrák lead the Moravian-Silesian region.
"But if he is successful, he will have to choose whether he wants to be a member of parliament or hejtman," Babiš stated earlier, confirming his viewpoint.
You have upset a lot of representatives and national politicians with the idea that directly elected mayors and chief magistrates should manage municipalities and towns on their own, only using managers.
Do you really mean it?
That isn't how it was.
I am a supporter of direct democracy. We elect the president directly and I am convinced that it should be the same for mayors and chief magistrates.
I don't talk about abolishing the representatives in my book, they can stay there comfortably.
There question is how many of them there should be.
During the presentation of your book "O čem sním, když náhodou spím" (What I Dream About When I Happen to Sleep), I heard you speak about the abolition of representation with my own ears.
I don't remember that.
I spoke about direct elections and reducing the number of representatives.
There are nine million inhabitants in New York, which has five districts and 51 representatives.
Prague has 1.2 million citizens and 1171 representatives.
And the mayor is making a fuss that little is being built and there are no great projects planned, but she is not competent in that regard.
The same applies to the government, which has only been governed by two people in our history, Klaus and Zeman.
I'm not saying they did that well.
The current prime minister isn't guiding anything, he only moderates the debate.
It can't work that way.
Is that why you want to push through the majority system?
It would be ideal, but it is difficult to enforce.
The only change we have in the plan is the one-round election to the Senate.
We have also proposed a sliding mandate for ministers and an amendment to the regulations governing the Chamber of Deputies, to prevent unnecessary attendance by members of parliament, who should mainly be working on committees and panels instead of Chamber meetings.
It is certainly not true that I want to destroy the parliamentary system.
But that's exactly what your opponents are afraid of.
That you will rule the government like a dictator, control the Chamber of Deputies with 101 deputies, abolish the counties and the Senate, and control the whole country through the grateful mayors and magistrates.
That is certainly not the case.
There is nothing wrong with debating the number of representatives.
The French President Macron announced that he was reducing the legislative board by a third, and there are 57,000 French people per one legislator, whereas here the ratio is 17,000 Czechs to one.
Nobody accused Macron of endangering democracy, however.
Even if somebody won the majority vote in the Czech Republic, we have mechanisms in place to prevent them from making dramatic changes.
The temptation is great for those who have the parliamentary majority. Just look at Poland or Hungary.
Nothing of the sort applies to the ANO movement.
We just need a team in government that will work for the people, not for their parties or departments.
I do not understand why we have not even been able to agree on increasing wages for teachers and workers in the cultural and social services.
Why did they vote for me and add 21 percent to GIBS members who already have 60 thousand?
Would you clamp down on that as prime minister?
The prime minister has to intervene when the ministers behave wastefully, confusing the government with a travel agency and using the state coffers as a business venture, like Marian Jurečka, who wanted to buy forests in Romania and land in Africa.
Ministers are not supposed to argue in the government. Conflicts should be thrown out of it.
The material that comes into the cabinet must be ready. There is no room for coalition ruptures, power ballots and deals. Decisions must be made there.
How do you expect to have a cohesive team when the ministers mainly act on behalf of the party?
The constitutional law is above the parties.
When it came to breaking bread, Sobotka said that the coalition agreement did not apply and turfed Babiš out of the government.
Any prime minister can do that.
But if they have character and leadership skills then these kinds of gestures are not needed.
They measure everyone equally and demand perfect execution from one and all.
Do you already know who you would appoint as the Minister of Finance?
I'm not thinking about it at all. We will probably will not end up in government. Nobody wants to cooperate with us, even though I do not know what I've done that's so terrible.
So much skepticism is out of place.
The mayors (STAN) enlisted businessman Dědek, who would like to cooperate with you. The KDU-ČSL may beat your winger Jiří Čunek.
I don't think so.
ČSSD is led by Lubomir Zaoralek, who is not ruling out a coalition with ANO, and Václav Klaus might win out in the ODS, and he also isn't against it.
I would leave it to the voters.
Deputy Prime Minister and ANO Deputy Chairman Richard Brabec said that you have many points in common with Tomio Okamura's SPD, such as in terms of the economy, for example.
So, Okamura supporters are being considered as coalition partners?
Mr. Brabec claims that he did not say that.
Mr. Okamura has his political history. He stood as Vít Bárta's puppet for the VV, then he earned money for his firm from Úsvit. Some kind of coup took place.
He is, of course, a strong personality.
But he is browned, somehow.
Looking at his plan, it involves the widespread engagement of people in the management of society, i.e. direct democracy, which we can agree on.
That's not what I'm asking you about at all.
I'm interested in whether it is acceptable for you to work with someone who has xenophobic views, talks about the gallows at demonstrations and wants to leave the EU?
We will not consider cooperating with Mr Okamura's party, I can not imagine it.
He clearly went into politics for the sake of profit.
And what about having the silent support of the Communists for your minority government?
I cannot imagine it, but the voters will decide.
The winner will negotiate with the person who comes second, but God knows who will be the winner and who number two.
Of course, it is important for them to able to agree on a coalition government programme.
Let's go back to your attempt to run the state as a business.
The government simply needs to be led. Prime Minister Sobotka left everything to rot, he never made any decisions.
Coalition issues like CEB or EGAP did not work.
Anyway, Sobotka is his puppet, and I think that was also why he threw me out.
As soon as he did, ČEZ controlled the Czech government.
It's unbelievable that the Prime Minister would send a decree written by ČEZ's management stipulating how the Minister of Finance should vote at the ČEZ General Meeting.
If you become prime minister, will you change the proportions of personnel in the supervisory board and will you change the top management of ČEZ?
Jesus Christ, if I become prime minister then we'll see.
I'm not there yet.
Rumour has it that ČEZ has already been sending you signals.
They would like to exchange the hood cooperation with the ČSSD for an even better one with ANO.
So maybe after the elections, everything will go ahead.
I don't know anything about that.
I have no Pokorný or Růžička style lobbyist. I am a separate entity and I do not deal with this at all.
So answer directly.
If you become the head of government, will you go after the leadership of ČEZ, České televize (Czech Television) or Všeobecné zdravotní pojišťovny, which are the institutions that you criticise?
I would like ČEZ to be a transparent company.
Meanwhile, he has been doing what he wants for years, thanks to kickbacks for traditional political parties.
Just look at Mr Schwarzenberg's statements.
Even though the state has a majority in ČEZ, it never directed it. It just served as a makeweight, which is wrong.
It's a trivial matter, in my opinion.
ČEZ should take Dukovany, value it, stick it into a subsidiary, arrange financing, hold a tender for the supplies or get a co-investor and build a new nuclear block.
The idea that the state should finance and build new nuclear blocks is absurd.
And Česká televize?
Some of its shows have a permanent campaign against me, but I do not have and will not have any authority to get rid of it.
But you could control it.
I don't want to control anyone.
I'm just saying that citizens pay about 7.2 billion a year for public radio and television fees, but they do not really know how these institutions are run.
How is it possible that they don't know?
The Chamber of Deputies approves a report on their management, which has a direct impact on the positions of the ČT and ČRo (Czech Radio) general managers.
Look at how the news handled the Sobotka-Kalousek super-pact, which always worked.
This applies both to the current parliamentary commission on leaks from investigation files and Lex Babiš.
Sobotka was stupid enough to let himself be pushed around by Kalousek, who made him throw me out of government, which won percentage points for TOP 09 percent, but ČSSD took them away.
They are afraid of an interference to their corrupt system, and so they talk about the threat to democracy posed by Babiš.
Nobody is immune.
What do you say to the articles describing how, as the first deputy chairman of ANO, Jaroslav Faltýnek is building a powerhouse by placing his son in the Supervisory Board of Tepláren Brno and arranging contracts with municipal and state-owned companies like Pražský dopravní podnik (Prague Transport Company) and České dráhy (Czech Railways) through the lawyer Květoslav Hlína?
We have a long-term dispute over it.
I don't like it, and I've reproached him for it several times.
Faltýnek argues that the aforementioned lawyer works at considerably lower rates and is reliable.
I would not take it so far.
I didn't have anyone as Minister of Finance.
Unlike the Social Democrats, we have never had any corruption scandals, no Pelts, no Kratochvílová, no Březinas.
As soon as there was any hint of clientelism in our party, we threw out threw the people involved out right away.
I'm not willing to compromise in that regard.
If anything like that were to happen, we would get rid of the relevant people, no matter who they were.
Civil rights group issues travel warning for Missouri
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has put out an alert for people of color traveling to Missouri because of the state's discriminatory policies and racist attacks.
"The NAACP Travel Advisory for the state of Missouri, effective through August 28th, 2017, calls for African American travelers, visitors and Missourians to pay special attention and exercise extreme caution when traveling throughout the state given the series of questionable, race-based incidents occurring statewide recently, and noted therein," the group's statement reads.
A recent Missouri law making it harder for people to win discrimination lawsuits, as well as the state's law enforcement disproportionately targeting minorities prompted the group to issue the travel alert, the NAACP said.
"You have violations of civil rights that are happening to people.
They're being pulled over because of their skin color, they're being beaten up or killed," the president of the Missouri NAACP, Rod Chapel, told The Kansas City Star.
"We are hearing complaints at a rate we haven't heard before."
It is the first such warning that the organization has issued for a state in the US.
The group cited incidents such as racial slurs against black students at the University of Missouri and the death of Tory Sanders, 28, a black man from Tennessee.
Sanders died under questionable circumstances earlier this year after he ran out of gas while traveling through the state, and was taken into custody by Missouri police without being accused of a crime.
The advisory also points to a recent report by the Missouri Attorney General's Office showing that black drivers in the state were 75 percent more likely to be pulled over than whites.
"The advisory is for people to be aware, and warn their families and friends and co-workers of what could happen in Missouri," Chapel said.
"People need to be ready, whether it's bringing bail money with them, or letting relatives know they are traveling through the state."
Missouri recorded 100 hate crimes in 2015, according to the latest figures from the FBI's hate crime reporting program, ranking the state at 16th in the country in terms of the number of such violations.
The travel warning is also a response to a new Missouri law that would make it more difficult to sue a business for housing or employment discrimination.
Previously, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) had issued travel advisories for Texas and Arizona after the states passed immigration enforcement laws requiring local law enforcement to detain people on immigration violations which the ACLU said would increase racial profiling.
Travel warnings are usually issued by the State Department for other countries, but lately, advocacy groups have resorted to the measure in response to certain laws and trends inside the US.
Is nothing sacred?
Now Trump's White House is targeting the Statue of Liberty
The surest mark of regime change is when they start attacking the statues.
Americans appreciate this as well as anyone - hence the carefully stage-manged toppling of Saddam Hussein in Firdos square in Baghdad in 2003.
Stephen Miller, one of the key ideologues of the Trump regime, surely knew what he was doing when he took a symbolic axe to the Statue of Liberty in a heated argument with CNN's Jim Acosta over the president's proposals to drastically limit legal immigration.
In fairness, Miller did not attack the statue itself.
A horde of boat-trip owners and Liberty impersonators would have lynched him if he did.
But he did attack its meaning, and in particular the meaning ascribed to it when Emma Lazarus's famous poem was added to its base in 1903, 17 years after the monument itself was completed.
As Miller scolded Acosta: "I don't want to get off into a whole thing about history here, but the Statue of Liberty is ... a symbol of American liberty lighting the world.
The poem that you're referring to, that was added later and is not part of the original Statue of Liberty."
Miller is factually correct, but as he put it himself, this is not really about history.
It is about the contemporary resonance of Lazarus's startling words, the only ones in which a state has appeared to invite not just any old immigrants, but the poorest of the poor: "Your tired, your poor, / Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, / The wretched refuse of your teeming shore."
There has never been a time when the "wretched refuse" has been more visible on our screens.
Miller was not engaging in literary criticism - he was making it clear that these people are not welcome in Trump's USA.
This conflict about the meaning of a statue is part of a wider political and cultural war: it is really a conflict about the meaning of America.
Lazarus - and her friends who campaigned to place her words at the base after her death - knew very well that they were engaging in a highly political act.
The sculpture was intended to mark the connections between French and American republicanism by representing in a well-worn classical trope, the female embodiment of Liberty.
Lazarus changed that meaning: in her poem the female figure is no longer abstract - she has a voice.
And she gives herself a very different name: Mother of Exiles.
The marrying of the poem to the image is a brilliant feminist coup and a devastating attack on American nativism.
And just as Lazarus changed the meaning of the statue, rightwingers have long wanted to change it back.
The great loudmouth Rush Limbaugh, a kind of John the Baptist for the coming of Trump, argued in 2010 that Liberty is not inviting anyone in, but is rather an early neocon, taking the American flame out to the benighted world: "Lady Liberty is stepping forward.
She is meant to be carrying the torch of liberty from the United States to the rest of the world.
The torch is not to light the way to the United States."
Rather unusually, Limbaugh actually hit on something.
The meaning of the statue is entirely a matter of the angle of perception.
Lazarus's great imaginative act was to see it as it would be seen by exhausted, wretched but hopeful people on the decks of ships after long and often dreadful journeys.
It is literally about seeing the world from the perspective of people seeking refuge and a chance to better their lives.
Her statue speaks back to them the words of hope and welcome they need to hear.
And of course, this is not the perspective Miller and Trump want ever to recognise.
Their torch is meant not to light the way, but to inflame the hatreds that are their only source of power.
World Championships 2017: Neil Black praises Scottish members of Team GB
Eilidh Doyle recalls a time when only two Scots made the GB team
UK Athletics' performance director Neil Black says the 16-strong Scottish contingent in the World Championships squad will make "a massive contribution to the team."
A record number of Scottish athletes have been selected for London 2017, which starts on Friday.
Black believes "there's something special evolving" in Scotland and UK athletics must learn from that.
"We embrace it and we're trying to understand it and we'll push on that until we work it out," Black said.
"I speak to people in the Scottish Institute of Sport and they think it's something to do with what they've done.
Scottish Athletics think it's something to do with what they've done.
British athletics: it's something to do with what they've done.
And the guy on the corner street, too.
Whatever the combination of circumstances, it's absolutely brilliant."
Several of the Scottish athletes are medal contenders, including Laura Muir and Andrew Butchart - who will race against Sir Mo Farah in the 5,000m, while Eilidh Doyle was voted by the squad to be team captain.
"Eilidh is slightly modest.
Her captain's speech was incredible," says Black.
"A number of athletes, whether they were Scottish or wherever they live or train, walked out of that room feeling hugely proud and really motivated.
The passion and real feeling that Eilidh naturally put into it were great."
The Commonwealth silver medallist, who will compete in the 400m hurdles at her fifth World Championships, says it's "incredible" 16 Scots are in the British team.
Scotland's previous best total of athletes at the worlds was seven, achieved in 1983 and 2015.
Middle-distance runner Muir is leading the way, having set five British and two European records in the past year.
She will go in the 1500m and the 5,000m.
Chris O'Hare, who runs in the 1500m, is another Scot to watch, following a great season that included victory at the British Team trials and the Anniversary Games.
Doyle remembers her first world championships, when the only other Scot in the team was Lee McConnell.
The team captain says she's "hugely proud" of the fact so many of her compatriots have not only made the team, but, in some cases, will be challenging for medals and competing to make finals.
"The special thing about being team captain is that it was voted for by the other members of the team, so that it was such a huge honour anyway but to know that your teammates have voted for you and chosen you made it extra-special for me," she added.
"Obviously, I'm very proud of all the Scots who've made the team.
It just shows how far we've come.
And they're here as well-established athletes, athletes that are going to be looking to get on podiums.
As for my captain's speech?
Yeah, I think it went well.
I just drew on the fact that we're very lucky in this situation in that we've got a home World Championships.
So it's really just the importance of drawing on that home support and thriving on the fact that we're back at the Olympic Stadium.
I'm getting a second chance to go out there and compete and it's just going to be such an amazing atmosphere out there."
Blocking critics from Facebook: Don't run for public office, if you can't take heat from voters
The father of our country knew something about bad press.
Americans loved George Washington, but it didn't take long for newspapers to start slamming him on everything from domestic policy to his political principles.
He chafed at the criticism, sure.
But he did not silence his critics.
Because back in 1783, Washington said, "the freedom of Speech may be taken away - and, dumb & silent we may be led, like sheep, to the Slaughter."
That brings me to Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan, who needs to work on being more like Washington.
Hogan's staff has blocked and deleted the posts of at least 450 people who voiced their opinions on his official Facebook page.
And the American Civil Liberties Union sued him for that earlier this week.
The governor's staff dismissed the lawsuit as frivolous, and the online commentary was rich with a "who cares?" backlash.
"It's only Facebook," plenty of folks said.
But it matters.
And it especially matters when it's a guy like Hogan.
This is a Republican governor in an overwhelmingly Democratic state who is astonishingly popular.
He has the second-highest approval rating of the nation's 50 governors.
Hogan is not a reactionary hothead.
He's shown a steady hand in leading his state and a stern adherence to principles.
He's also been pretty deft at using Facebook as a primary means to connect with his constituents, playfully debuting his hairless head after chemo treatments on his page.
So blocking people who come to the governor's page - which is a public forum, labeled as official and administered by staff members paid public tax dollars - is unnecessary and ultimately dangerous.
In an interview with The Washington Post, Hogan spokeswoman Amelia Chasse defended the governor's actions, arguing that blocking the comments was nothing more than moderating them.
But it's too easy to use the image of trolls or spammers or hateful folks lashing out online.
The Post talked to some of the real people blocked by Hogan.
And they're just that - real people talking to their elected leaders: a teacher, a business owner and a pastor, not trolls.
They all said that their comments were respectful, thoughtful and not profane.
The pastor quoted the Bible in his post, appealing to Hogan's Catholic faith.
Attorney Lakshmi Sarma Ramani of Bowie, Md., wasn't hateful, but she asked about hate crimes.
"I politely commented that I was disappointed in his lack of response to hate crimes and other recent news items," she wrote in the comment section of The Post's news story.
"I also do not appreciate that idea that when a number of people comment on the same topic, they are immediately disregarded by some as a so-called collective effort, rather than recognized as a large group of concerned citizens."
What the governor's staff called a "concentrated spam attack" others would probably call "advocacy."
The Facebook era makes it easy to tailor a message by simply blocking a critic or deleting a negative comment.
It's a lot cleaner than the old days, when doing the same would have required sending staff out to collect and burn newspapers with critical editorials or arresting and silencing protesters.
But that's exactly what's happening, only digitally.
Hogan isn't the first public official to be criticized for defanging Facebook and other social media.
President Trump is being sued by Twitter users who were blocked from his Twitter feed.
One of the first landmark rulings on this issue came down last week in Virginia.
The chair of the Loudoun County Board of Supervisors violated the First Amendment, according to U.S. District Judge James C. Cacheris in Alexandria, when she banned a constituent from her Facebook page.
And in Kentucky, Gov. Matt Bevin (R) also got a visit from the ACLU over his use of Facebook and Twitter.
This shouldn't be so hard.
In Washington's time, the era of affordable postage had an impact much like the Internet.
The number of newspapers quadrupled between 1776 and 1800, and anonymous letter writers hammered his leadership.
And even back then, Washington had anonymous trolls.
People using the pseudonyms "Juricola," "Valerius," "Belisarius," and "Portius" all wrote letters to newspapers trashing Washington's decisions.
Petitions criticizing his stand on the Treaty of Amity, Commerce, and Navigation with Britain overwhelmed his office, according to the historical documents collected by the online Papers of George Washington Project.
But he did not silence them.
Freedom of speech, dissent and discourse lie at the very foundation of our nation.
And true leadership means accepting that.
Ronan Rafferty hopes for home comforts at Renaissance Club
Former European No 1 Ronan Rafferty will be hoping for home comforts over the next three days as the Renaissance Club in East Lothian hosts the 25th edition of the Scottish Senior Open.
The Northern Irishman, who led next door at Archerfield Links heading into the final round last year before losing out to Paul Eales, is attached to the new venue and is acting as tournament ambassador on behalf of the club's founder and CEO Jerry Sarvadi.
"I watched Renaissance Club being built, and we're seeing it come to its glory with this event," said Rafferty.
"The players will see this course at its finest, it is in fabulous condition.
Jerry has done a fabulous job setting this place up.
He's a keen advocate of this game and is proud of his achievement here.
This is a great showcase for this course."
Englishman Eales is looking forward to defending a championship for the first time despite winning on both the European Tour and European Challenge Tour in his 32-year career.
"This does feel really special," said the Southport-based player.
"I didn't get to defend the Extremadura Open because that was taken off the schedule the year after I won it.
Coming back to this part of the world is magical.
It's a wonderful place to play golf in.
The memories from last year are coming back and it was special for me and my wife Sharon to win last year.
It was a really special time and one we will always cherish."
Making his return to action on home soil is Gary Orr, who joined the European Senior Tour after turning 50 earlier this year.
This event will be his first Scottish appearance since the Aberdeen Asset Management Scottish Open in 2013.
"It always means a little bit more when you're playing at home," said Helensburgh man Orr.
"You want to do well; but you do feel that extra pressure.
I've really enjoyed playing again and I've played some solid golf.
I'm happy with how it's going so far."
Joining the trio in the field are former Masters winner Ian Woosnam and Senior major champions Paul Broadhurst, Roger Chapman, Mark James and Mark McNulty.
Orr and former Ryder Cup captain Sam Torrance are among six Scots in the field, the others being Andrew Oldcorn, Stephen McAllister, Bill Longmuir and Ross Drummond.
Admission is free of charge, with car parking charged at £5 per car with one occupant and £10 per car with two or more occupants.
All proceeds go to Prostate Cancer UK.
Poverty and Death in Indonesia's Land of Gold
When Bardina Degei cooks dinner, she doesn't use a stove.
She rarely even uses a pot.
In her wooden home in Enarotali, the capital of Paniai regency in the restive Indonesian province of Papua, the housewife usually just places a sweet potato - known locally as "nota" - directly into the fireplace.
After half-an-hour, the charred tuber is retrieved and devoured with eager, unwashed hands.
Degei sits on the mud floor - she has no furniture - which is where she also performs her daily chores, such as washing clothes with murky water from the nearby swamp.
A bucket in a roofless room serves as a latrine.
As the youngest of her husband's four wives, she has been assigned no fields to tend.
Polygamy is common here.
Of course, working late can be dangerous: Most of the village men are unemployed and many drink heavily, plus there are the soldiers.
"No one dares to walk around the village after 5 p.m.," she says.
It's a rare glimpse of daily life in the highlands of Papua, a former Dutch colony that was absorbed into Indonesia in 1969 following a controversial referendum, when just 1,026 elders were forced to vote through a public show of hands before occupying troops.
An existing movement agitating for independence against Dutch rule swiftly turned its ire against the Jakarta government, which maintains tight control over the region, barring foreign journalists or rights monitors.
In 2003, the province was officially split into Papua and West Papua, with independent Papua New Guinea occupying the eastern part of the island.
Enarotali is as remote as it is desolate; the journey here involves a 90-minute flight from the provincial capital Jayapura to Nabire, and then a stomach-churning five-hour drive by hire car.
There is no public transport.
The town of some 19,000 people consists of wooden houses ringed by bamboo fencing, corrugated iron roofs transformed by rust into varying tawny shades.
Very few Indonesians have made the journey here, let alone journalists, and practically no foreigners.
Before Christian missionaries arrived, Mee Pago Papuans worshiped a God named Uga Tamee.
There were other changes, too.
"We were not used to wearing these clothes," says Degei, indicating her vividly colored, hand-woven turban, dark shirt and a bright skirt.
"Before, we only wore leaves on our bodies."
Papua is Indonesia's poorest province, where 28% of people live below the poverty line and with some of the worst infant mortality and literacy rates in Asia.
But it is also Indonesia's land of gold.
The world's largest and most profitable gold mine, Grasberg, owned by Phoenix-based Freeport McMoran, lies just 60 miles from Paniai, a highland province around the size of New Jersey and home to 153,000 people.
In 2015 alone, Freeport mined some $3.1 billion worth of gold and copper here.
In addition, Papua boasts timber resources worth an estimated $78 billion.
These riches are, however, a source of misery for Papuans, ensuring Indonesia's powerful military maintains a suffocating presence.
A 2005 investigation in The New York Times reported that Freeport paid local military personnel and units nearly $20 million between 1998 and 2004, including up to $150,000 to a single officer.
Papuan calls for greater autonomy threaten this golden goose, and are dealt with mercilessly.
According to rights activists, more than 500,000 Papuans have been killed, and thousands more have been raped, tortured and imprisoned by the Indonesian military since 1969.
Mass killings in Papua's tribal highlands during the 1970s amounted to genocide, according to the Asia Human Rights Commission.
Indonesian police arrested more than 3,900 peaceful protesters in the region last year alone.
We Will Lose Everything, a 2016 report by the Archdiocese of Brisbane, contains testimony of atrocities committed the previous year, such as extrajudicial executions, torture - rape and electrocution are especially popular, according to another report - and the brutal crushing of peaceful demonstrations.
"It's difficult to count the number of victims as incidents happen every week," says Andreas Harsono, Indonesia researcher for Human Rights Watch.
The screws have tightened as Papua's resources bring an influx of settlers from elsewhere in Indonesia.
The province's 3.5 million population is 83% Christian, but the demographic is changing as Muslim economic migrants arrive from Indonesia's populous islands of Java, Borneo, Sumatra and Sulawesi.
Javanese warung canteens sell fried chicken and gado-gado mixed-vegetables served with peanut sauce.
Local people struggle to compete.
"The migrants started to sell chicken and vegetables in the traditional market cheaper than the local Papuans," explains Abeth You, a 24-year-old Paniai native who moved to the provincial capital Jayapura for work.
"It made the native Papuans - the mama-mama [the women] of Papua - lose their market."
Indonesian President Joko Widodo, popularly known as Jokowi, vowed to address the inequalities and rights abuses in Papua during his election campaign in 2014.
The former carpenter secured 27 of Papua's total 29 districts - including Paniai - on the way to the Presidential Palace in Jakarta.
But precious little has changed in Papua, and today local people feel betrayed.
"Our hearts have been broken because in 2014 we voted for Jokowi, with the expectation that he would fulfill our hopes for justice to be restored," You says.
In fact, Paniai suffered a nadir just two months after Jokowi's October inauguration.
On Dec. 7, 2014 a group of 11 children were outside singing Christmas carols in front of a bonfire in Enarotali when two Indonesian soldiers on a motorbike broke through the gloom.
The startled children told them that they should turn on their headlights.
One of the soldiers took umbrage at their tone and later returned with four soldiers, according to local Pastor Yavedt Tebai.
The soldiers, who had been drinking, chased and beat the group with their rifle butts, said victims and witnesses.
Then one of the soldiers fired into the group of children.
One child, 16-year-old Yulianus Yeimo, was beaten so badly he fell into a coma.
A couple of hours later, the nearby government Election Commission building was set ablaze, and things escalated the following day.
About 1,000 young Papuan men, women and children gathered on a soccer field in front of the local police station and military command center to demand justice.
They carried ceremonial hunting bows and performed the waita dance - running in circles and simulating birdsong - of Papua's Mee Pago tribe.
Some protesters started hurling stones at police and military posts.
As tempers grew more heated, an order was sent to the soldiers through internal radio: "If the masses offer resistance more than three times, shoot them dead," it said, according to an official document seen by TIME that has not been released to the local media.
Yeremias Kayame, 56, the head of the Kego Koto neighborhood of Enarotali, saw the impending danger and appealed for calm, imploring the crowd to go back home.
Nobody was in the mood to listen.
"When I turned around I suddenly got shot in my left wrist," he told TIME on the porch of his brightly painted wooden house.
Kayame still doesn't know who fired but says the bullet came from the ranks of amassed soldiers.
"It was crowded, many shots were fired," he adds.
Local man Alfius Youw was hit three times, according to his cousin who witnessed the shootings.
"I ran to him and examined his body to make sure it was him," Yohanes, who like many Indonesians only goes by one name, told TIME somberly.
"I saw he was dead ... I kissed him."
The Papua Police Chief Inspector General Yotje Mende told reporters that his officers were only "securing" their station because it was under attack.
"We have to defend ourselves when people threaten to kill us," Papua Police spokesperson, Commissioner Pudjo Sulistiyo said in 2015.
"It's a matter of life and death."
According to Human Rights Watch, five young protesters were killed and many more injured.
News of the killings only filtered through to Jakarta the following day.
Three weeks later, Jokowi gave an impassioned speech in Jayapura, where he expressed sympathies with the victims' families and vowed to address the historic abuses in Papua.
"I want this case to be solved immediately so it won't ever happen again in the future," he said.
Security Minister Wiranto said in October 2016 that he was setting up a non-judicial mechanism to settle historic human-rights violations.
But the excuses started almost immediately.
"Most of the violations occurred a long time ago.
Some were in the '90s and in early 2000s.
The point is we are committed to addressing these violations, but there are processes to go through," he said.
Then Wiranto backtracked when speaking to TIME in Jakarta on June 5, saying he has no plans to establish a grievance mechanism in Papua.
Instead, "All will be settled by law," he said.
Wiranto, who the U.N. has indicted for "crimes against humanity" relating to more than 1,000 deaths during East Timor's bloody 1999 independence vote, said that 11 cases of human-rights violations in Papua have already been settled, including the Paniai incident.
Families of the Paniai victims greeted such claims with grim incredulity.
"I've been interviewed four times for the past three years, but there has been no progress at all," Yohanes says.
"I'm tired."
He says that years later, he still lives in fear.
"I'm afraid," he says.
"I'm afraid of being arrested by the military, afraid to be shot."
His brother Yacobus echoed the view that people in Paniai are fearful of discussing the incident.
He says he was beaten by the military after helping to bury four of the victims.
"After burying the bodies, the military came looking for me," he says.
The shootings haven't stopped.
On Tuesday, Indonesian police shot at villagers in Paniai's neighboring Deiyai regency.
One person died and 17 others were wounded, including children, during a confrontation between villagers and the manager of a construction company who refused to help transport an unconscious man to hospital.
The man, 24-year-old Ravianus Douw who drowned while he was fishing in a nearby river, died on the way to hospital.
Incensed villagers protested in front of the company's site office.
Police said the villagers threw rocks at officers, who responded by firing warning shots.
But locals say the mobile brigade (Indonesian paramilitary police) began shooting at the crowd, killing one.
"We were so panicked, we are afraid there will be revenge," 29-year-old Dominggu Badii, who lives near the hospital and witnessed the injured being hurried in, tells TIME.
"I have been hiding in my house for two days."
The Deiyai parliament has called for the officers involved to be held to account and the police mobile brigade to be withdrawn from the area.
Paniai has always been a troublespot for the Indonesian government.
The lack of meaningful development feeds the discontent of the tribal Mee, Moni, Dani, and Damal peoples, who live sprawled across Papua's verdant central highlands.
Many joined the Free Papua Movement (OPM), the rebel army that claims to defend the rights of the Papuans by launching sporadic attacks and kidnapping raids on Indonesian soldiers.
Some of the top OPM leaders hail from Paniai, including Tadius Yogi and Daniel Yudas Kogoya.
In response, thousands of people in Paniai have been arrested and arbitrarily detained by the military in recent years, under the guise of "safeguarding national sovereignty."
Some never reappear.
Among the people of Papua, Paniai is known as "a tragic, forgotten place."
Poverty feeds the discontent.
The little rice on sale in Enarotali is too expensive for locals to buy.
Bread is just as out of reach.
People here grow everything they eat: mainly nota plus some fruit and leafy vegetables.
Farming is the job of the women, who each can maintain four or five fields of the sweet potato.
They usually keep most of the harvest for the family, with the rest sold in the local market.
Ten pieces of nota cost only 10,000 Indonesian rupiah (75 cents).
Over time, economic inequalities have grown between the native Papuans and the new migrants, who have arrived in greater numbers since the opening of a new air routes to Nabire Airport.
What few jobs exist typically go to the better-educated and wealthier migrants.
Papuans rarely have the capital or the necessary skills to run their own businesses competitively.
"The young people are not interested to stay in the village ... because there's no jobs or money here," says John Gobai, the chairman of the tribal council of Paniai.
Isolation keeps the world's eyes off Papua.
In addition, reporting restrictions for international media remain tight.
Earlier this year, French journalists Franck Escudie and Basille Longchamp were deported from Papua for a "lack of coordination with related institutions" despite having been granted rare permission to film.
According to Phelim Kine, Deputy Asia Director of Human Rights Watch, Jokowi's election campaign pledges to lift reporting restrictions to boost transparency and development have not been realized.
"There are new hazards for foreign journalists attempting to report from Indonesia's restive easternmost provinces of Papua and West Papua: visa denial and blacklisting," he said in a statement.
The lack of press scrutiny means international pressure on the Indonesian government has been largely limited to Papua's immediate neighbors.
In March, six Pacific nations - Tonga, Nauru, Palau, Tuvalu, the Marshall Islands, and the Solomon Islands - urged the U.N. Human Rights Council to investigate the "various and widespread violations" in Papua, including the Paniai shooting.
These same countries have historically backed the OPM.
Indonesian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Arrmanatha Nasir shrugged off the group's allegations, telling journalists in Jakarta, "In Indonesia, a democratic system still applies and there's free media so it's hard for the evidence of human rights cases to be covered up."
Local people want more foreign governments to take note.
When an official delegation from the Netherlands, headed by the nation's human rights ambassador Kees Van Baar, visited Jayapura on May 4, local people broke their silence, beseeching, "We want freedom," according to a source who also attended the meeting but who asked to stay anonymous.
Indonesia has another presidential election in 2019, but Papuans say they are unlikely to vote again for Jokowi.
"Jokowi is a person who has good intentions, but he is surrounded by the people who are involved in the Paniai shooting," says Gobai, the tribal council chairman.
He wants Jokowi to know that the Paniai people, aside from living under the looming threat of a rapacious military, wallow in destitution, with paltry education and health services.
Gobai says the Paniai people, like other Papuans, consider their vote to Jokowi as a "debt" he must repay.
"They don't need money, they just want justice," he says.
Despite the threats and intimidation, families of the Paniai shooting victims carried out one last symbolic act of defiance: burying one victim's body on land just opposite the police and military station.
Knowing that justice may never be served, at least they won't let those responsible forget their crimes.
"A member of our family has been killed," says Yacobus, head bowed.
"What else could we do?"
Fire engulfs Dubai's 'Torch' skyscraper for second time
A fire ripped through one of the world's tallest residential towers in Dubai on Friday, forcing hundreds of occupants to flee the 337 metre-tall, 79-storey structure.
It's the second blaze to sweep through the high-rise - which happens to be called the Torch tower - in just two years.
The building was evacuated, no injuries were reported, and there was no immediate word on the cause of the blaze.
"We were sleeping and we woke up to the fire alarm and people screaming.
We ran down the stairs and it took us about 10 minutes to reach from the 50th floor," a resident who gave his name as George told Reuters.
Dubai's civil defence authorities said firefighting squads put out the blaze at around 4.00 am local time (0000 GMT) and were cooling the building.
The government said it was working on providing shelter for those affected.
The incident may revive questions about the safety of materials used on the exteriors of tall buildings across the world.
An investigation by the management of the Torch after its 2015 fire found that most of the damage was to the cladding, exterior panelling used for decoration or insulation.
In the UK, police have said they believe the system of insulation and cladding panels on London's Grenfell Tower may have contributed to the rapid spread of a fire there in June in which some 80 people died.
More than 1 in 5 US travellers carry prohibited items onto aircraft, survey finds
A survey of airline passengers found that more than 20 per cent had knowingly or unknowingly smuggled prohibited items past the US Transportation Security Administration checkpoints onto the aircraft, including at least 6 per cent who boarded the plane while unintentionally carrying prohibited knives or other bladed objects.
Less than 1 per cent claimed that they discovered belatedly that they had mistakenly travelled with firearms, ammunition or explosives.
The survey of more than 1000 people - which was conducted by a jet-chartering service Stratos Jet Charters Inc. - also found that younger travellers were more likely to flout the rules.
Of the respondents who admitted knowingly trying to fly with something banned by the TSA, 19.7 per cent were millennials, compared with less than 15 per cent who were members of Generation X.
The most common items whisked past TSA agents on purpose were food and liquids.
More than 3 per cent admitted knowingly carrying bladed items past security, while 2.2 per cent of female respondents and 3.7 per cent of male respondents also acknowledged intentionally carrying prohibited drugs onto the aircraft.
The company said it surveyed travellers around the country to find out how many had accidentally brought contraband through airport security and how many had done so on purpose.
It's no surprise that the people most likely to haul contraband past security - knowingly or unknowingly - were those who fly the most.
As the company points out, however, the TSA guidelines are somewhat complicated and confusing.
People are often uncertain of what liquids they can carry or how much of them.
So it's no surprise that the largest amount of stuff seized by the TSA happens to be forbidden liquids.
For a time, people thought the TSA might be treating books as contraband.
Liquids are allowed on domestic flights, but not on international ones.
EPA Chief Pruitt Backtracks on Delaying Obama-Era Rules to Reduce Emissions
One day after getting sued by 15 states, Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt reversed his earlier decision to delay implementation of Obama-era rules reducing emissions of smog-causing air pollutants.
Pruitt presented the change as his agency being more responsive than past administrations to the needs of state environmental regulators.
He made no mention of the legal challenge filed against his prior position in a federal appeals court.
At issue is an Oct. 1 deadline for states to begin meeting 2015 standards for ground-level ozone.
Pruitt announced in June he would delay compliance by one year to give his agency more time to study the plan and avoid "interfering with local decisions or impeding economic growth."
Pruitt, who was Oklahoma's state attorney general prior to his appointment by President Donald Trump, has long served as a reliable opponent of stricter environmental regulations.
Since arriving in Washington, Pruitt has repeatedly moved to block or delay regulations opposed by the chemical and fossil-fuel industries.
Wednesday's sudden reversal is the latest legal setback for Pruitt's regulatory rollback agenda.
Last month, a federal appeals court in Washington ruled the EPA administrator overstepped his authority in trying to delay implementation of an Obama administration rule requiring oil and gas companies to monitor and reduce methane leaks.
In a statement issued Wednesday evening, Pruitt suggested his about-face on ozone standards simply reinforced the EPA's commitment to working with states through the complex process of meeting the new standards on time.
"Under previous administrations, EPA would often fail to meet designation deadlines, and then wait to be sued by activist groups and others, agreeing in a settlement to set schedules for designation," said Pruitt, who sued EPA more than a dozen times in his prior job.
"We do not believe in regulation through litigation, and we take deadlines seriously.
We also take the statute and the authority it gives us seriously."
Still, the EPA's statement said Pruitt may at some point once again use his "delay authority and all other authority legally available" to ensure regulations "are founded on sound policy and the best available information."
Republicans in Congress are pushing for a broader rewrite of the ozone rules.
A House bill approved last month seeks to delay implementation of the 2015 rules at least eight years.
The measure has not yet been brought to a vote in the Senate.
New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who led the coalition of states that sued the EPA this week, said the group intends to keep up the legal pressure.
"The EPA's reversal - following our lawsuits - is an important win for the health and safety of those 6.7 million New Yorkers, and the over 115 million Americans directly impacted by smog pouring into their communities," Schneiderman said.
New York was joined in the case by California, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Mexico, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington, and the District of Columbia.
Ground-level ozone is created when common pollutants emitted by cars, power plants, oil refineries, chemical plants and other sources react in the atmosphere to sunlight.
The resulting smog can cause serious breathing problems among sensitive groups of people, contributing to thousands of premature deaths each year.
Public health advocates and environmentalists cheered Pruitt's surprising change of course.
"It's disturbing how much pressure it took to get this commonsense step from the guy in charge of protecting the air we breathe," said Lori Ann Burd of the Center for Biological Diversity.
"We've got to keep fighting the Trump administration's ideological crusade to pander to polluters and special interests."
Trump pressured Mexico on border wall payment according to leaked phone call transcripts
Transcripts of phone calls between US President Donald Trump and leaders of Mexico and Australia have been leaked by the Washington Post.
On 27th January in a phone call to Mexican president, Enrique Pena Nieto, Trump urged him to stop publicly saying he would not pay for a proposed border wall.
The US President berated him for publicly denouncing the wall, reportedly saying to him "You cannot say that to the press."
Trump launched his presidential campaign on a promise to build a wall along the US southern border and vowed to make Mexico pay for the project.
Transcripts of his first call with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull were also published revealing a tense exchange.
Mr Trump told Mr Turnbull a deal for the US to take on refugees headed for Australia was "ridiculous," "rotten" and "stupid," insisting the deal, brokered under the Obama administration, would make him look like "a dope" after he had proposed a ban on refugee resettlement in the US.
Mr Trump ended the call after telling Mr Turnbull "this is the most unpleasant call all day."
Moore's Ford Massacre: Activists Reenact Racist Lynching as a Call for Justice
A 1948 Ford Mercury passed through a group of onlookers in rural Monroe, Georgia, and rumbled toward the small Moore's Ford Bridge.
Before the car, which had four black passengers and a white driver, could reach the bridge, a group of white men with guns stepped forward to block its path.
The leader of the mob - a middle aged man in a pinstriped suit - took a long drag on his cigar and peered through the windshield.
Inside, the occupants reeled in fear.
"We want that n----r Roger!" the man barked.
"Get him out of the car!"
Screams ripped through the silence as a young black man was dragged from the front passenger seat.
Fortunately, this horrific scene, which played out on July 22, is just a reenactment.
But when a noose is thrown around the neck of "Roger," nearly everyone in the audience let out very real gasps.
Since 2005, civil rights activists have returned to the Moore's Ford Bridge to recreate the night two black couples - Roger and Dorothy Malcom, and George and Mae Murray Dorsey - were lynched by the Ku Klux Klan in 1946.
No one has ever been charged with the murders.
"It's mind boggling that all of these years, not a single person has been arrested - even though we see them in our communities; even though we know who they are," said Tyrone Brooks, who helps organize the reenactment.
"It's a stain on a history, but it's a burden on our souls."
Brooks is a 71-year-old former Georgia state congressman and lifelong civil rights activist.
For him, the reenactment serves as a dramatic call to action and an annual reminder to the Monroe community that an injustice has never been corrected.
"We want prosecution, we want closure, we want healing, we want reconciliation, but we have to have justice first," he said.
"We can't get to healing and reconciliation until we get justice."
A coroner places a sheet over the body of one of the victims of the Moore's Ford lynching on July 27, 1946.
According to FBI files obtained by NBC News, more than 50 men from Monroe and the surrounding counties were suspected in the lynching.
But not one was ever prosecuted.
Though the suspects have remained at large for decades, civil rights activists say the twin motivations for the lynchings were always well known throughout town: politics and sex.
In April 1946, a Supreme Court ruling enabled black citizens in Georgia to cast ballots for the first time during the primary race later that summer.
Around the same time of the election, according to the FBI, black sharecropper Roger Malcom stabbed Barnett Hester, a white landowner, during a fight - ostensibly over a woman.
Brooks said the town rumor was that Hester had been sleeping with Malcom's wife, Dorothy, and that the baby she was carrying was not her husband's.
On July 25, 1946, Loy Harrison, a prominent white landowner, paid $600 to bail Malcom out of jail, according to the FBI.
He was accompanied to the prison by Dorothy, and their cousins, Mae Murray and George Dorsey.
But, driving away from the jail, as they approached Moore's Ford Bridge, a lynch mob surrounded the car.
"As it turns out it was Harrison who set up and ordered the murders," one FBI report concludes.
"It is also apparent that there was a conspiracy among state and local law enforcement, who not only took part in the murders, disposed of evidence and concealed the identity of witnesses."
Brooks put it more succinctly.
"It was a voting rights massacre," he said.
"They were all killed to send a message to black people in this community: 'If you register and if you vote, this is what will happen to you.'"
For nearly a decade, Cassandra Greene has directed the annual reenactment of the Moore's Ford Bridge lynchings.
Her performance is graphic, gripping and grounded in a kind of deep racism that many would like to believe no longer exists in America.
It's difficult to watch, and even more difficult to look away, but Greene said that's the point.
"We don't want to talk about the lynching because it makes us face the ugliness in all of us," she said.
"But I can't build a relationship with you, if you won't hear me, or hear what I've been through."
Rehearsals for this year's production began in June, and on the first day nearly 30 actors - a dozen white and the rest black - crowded into a room and listened as Greene launched into a well-rehearsed overview of the play.
Wade Marbaugh serves as Greene's co-director.
He's played the part of the head Klansman for years, but he said the role never gets any easier.
"I feel dirty because this is not who I am," said Marbaugh.
"But I think it's very important to keep this history alive because we don't want to go back to those times."
Across the room, actors Darrius Bradshaw and Nick Rascona, who play Roger Malcom and Barnett Hester, rehearsed their lines.
The play begins with Malcom shouting and shoving Hester, livid that he's been sleeping with his wife, Dorothy.
"I said n---a, get off my property!"
Rascona fires back.
There's a beat.
And then everyone (at least all the black actors) bursts into laughter.
Greene laughs the hardest.
"What?!," Rascona asked.
He's alarmed, confused.
Did I go too hard?
"No," Greene said through chuckles.
"I just don't think white people back then said 'n---a.'"
"Yea," one of the other black cast members quipped.
"You have to hit the hard 'R.'"
And just like that the energy in the room shifts; a sense of camaraderie replaces the discomfort.
Everyone is dedicated to getting this right, not only for the sake of the play, but also for the memory of the four people killed.
The scene begins again.
This time, when Rascona says the N-word, it's sharp and emphatic.
Absolutely no one laughs.
The reenactment ends violently and quickly.
There's screams, gunfire and then, silence.
A woman dressed in funeral black, stands over the actors bodies and performs Billie Holiday's mournful eulogy, "Strange Fruit."
Her voice breaks on every other word.
A hundred yards back, a group of about four dozen spectators wipe sweat and tears away from their eyes.
The audience is almost evenly split between black and white.
One couple has traveled from Ithaca, New York, to see the performance, many are from just down the road.
They've all weathered Georgia's oppressive humidity for the nearly eight hours as Brooks lead them on a pilgrimage to the grave sites of the Malcoms and Dorseys.
Up until this point, the murders have remained an anecdote, but now, standing on the same land where the lynchings took place, the air feels haunted.
As the final notes of the song fade, Greene invites the crowd to move closer and inspect the bodies.
Children crouch by their heads, take in the fake blood and still bodies, and whisper to each other.
"They're not really dead," one little boy mutters, as if to remind himself.
After a few minutes Greene thanks the crowd, and suddenly it's over.
The actors throw off the lynching rope and wipe away tears.
Bradshaw hugs Marbaugh, the man in the suit who played the head Klansman.
Nick Rascona hugs two of his castmates, and then breaks down crying in their arms; the emotional toll of the performance finally getting to him.
"It's okay," one of the women whispers.
"We know that's not what's in your heart.
You did this for a reason."
Later, the audience sits down to dinner with the actors.
At one table, a white couple from Atlanta chats animatedly about the reenactment with a black couple they just met.
Denise Duplinski struggled to find words for how the performance made her feel.
"It's hard to hear those horrible awful words, and deeds ... come out of people that look like you and who do it because they look like you," she said.
"What this really does to me is make me think that lynchings are still going on," she added, "they're just called police shootings now."
Across the room, Tyrone Brooks holds court at his table, eating and reminiscing about civil rights.
He said he's already begun planning for next year's performance.
"The reenactment is inspirational in a way because it describes the horror of what we endured, but it also is a teaching moment," he said.
"It's like, if you don't learn from this, it can happen again.
Those who don't study their history, those who do not know their history, are doomed to repeat it."
Pearson cuts another 3,000 jobs, slashes dividend to revive business
British education group Pearson said on Friday it would cut another 3,000 jobs and slash its interim dividend by 72 per cent as it started another restructuring programme to tackle the pressures facing its business.
The job cuts, which Chief Executive John Fallon said will mostly come late in 2018 and in early 2019, are in addition to 4,000 roles lost in its previous restructuring.
Pearson announced a plan to cut costs by another 300 million pounds ($394-million U.S.) in May in a third cost-cutting programme to try to revive a business hit by the rapid move to digital learning.
The company, which agreed to sell its stake in Penguin Random House to partner Bertelsmann last month, said its outlook for the year was unchanged after it reported a 1 per cent rise in underlying sales in the first half to 2.05 billion pounds.
Kabul convoy attack: Nato soldier killed in suicide blast
A suicide bomber has attacked a military convoy in the Afghan capital, Kabul, killing a Nato soldier and wounding several others, officials say.
Five soldiers and an interpreter were injured, a Nato statement said.
Unconfirmed local reports say three civilians also died in the incident in the city's Qarabagh district.
The bombing is the latest violence to have hit Afghanistan this month - on Tuesday more than 30 people were killed in a mosque blast in Herat.
On Monday a suicide bomber killed two people near the Iraqi embassy in Kabul.
A Nato statement said that Thursday evening's blast happened when a joint patrol with the Afghan army was attacked by a "personnel-borne improvised explosive device."
The statement said that all those injured are in a stable condition and are being treated at the US military hospital at Bagram airfield.
Correspondents say the growing strength of the Taliban and the group known as so-called Islamic State (IS) in Qarabagh is a major source of concern to Nato forces based in nearby Bagram.
According to the United Nations, Afghanistan saw at least 1,662 civilian deaths in the first half of 2017, with about 20% of those in the capital.
At the end of July, a suicide car bomb killed at least 30 people in a mainly Shia district of Kabul.
The Taliban said they had carried out that attack.
On 31 May, a huge bombing in the centre of the city killed more than 150 people, the deadliest militant attack in the country since US-led forces ousted the Taliban from power in 2001.
The violence underlines the precarious security situation in Afghanistan as US President Donald Trump weighs up whether to increase the number of US troops aiding the military and police in the country.
Correspondents say the suicide bombings in Kabul in recent weeks have also created a crisis of public confidence in the government, its policies and in particular the reputation of President Ashraf Ghani.
EPA reverses decision to delay smog rule after lawsuits
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency reversed a decision to delay an Obama-era rule requiring states to curb smog-causing emissions, one day after 15 states sued the agency over the move.
The EPA announced the decision to go ahead with the so-called "2015 Ozone Designations" late on Wednesday, saying it showed the agency's commitment to working with states.
"We believe in dialogue with, and being responsive to, our state partners," EPA Chief Scott Pruitt said in a statement.
Pruitt in June had announced the EPA's intention to delay the ozone designations - in which existing smog pollution is measured in parts of the country to determine where cuts must be made to meet tougher air quality standard - by one year to October 2018.
A group of 15 mostly Democratic states, along with the District of Columbia, filed a suit on Tuesday saying the effort was illegal.
The administration of President Donald Trump has been seeking to roll back a wide array of environmental regulations imposed by former President Barack Obama, as part of a broader agenda Trump says is aimed at sparking economic growth.
But the efforts have triggered pushback by Democratics and conservation groups who are concerned about the impact of greater emissions on public health.
The EPA's website says breathing air containing ozone "can reduce lung function and increase respiratory symptoms" like asthma.
Mikey Garcia and Vasyl Lomachenko meet for the first time, discuss a possible showdown
Vasyl Lomachenko and Mikey Garcia, who should be on a collision course to stage the most compelling boxing match under 147 pounds in the near future, met each other for the first time Thursday.
They were in separate rooms at ESPN offices in Los Angeles until Garcia, the unbeaten World Boxing Council lightweight champion, walked down the hallway to greet Lomachenko, the World Boxing Organization super-featherweight champion.
After Garcia's victory by unanimous decision over former four-division world champion Adrien Broner on Saturday on Showtime, both fighters are members of the top-five pound-for-pound list.
Garcia extended his right hand and said, "How you doing, champ?
Best of luck to you."
Lomachenko defends his belt against Miguel Marriaga on Saturday night at 7 on ESPN.
As the pair posed for photos, Lomachenko manager Egis Klimas noted that a potential showdown between the fighters would be "perfect sizing."
"I'm a former featherweight," Garcia reminded.
"I moved up for Broner [at 140 pounds], but I'm not that big.
I'm small for 140.
I want to come down to lightweight.
And he's got to move up to lightweight [135 pounds] and then we have a fight.
That's what the fans are asking for.
Let's give them that."
Lomachenko agreed.
"Boxing needs this fight."
Klimas asked if it should be on pay-per-view, part of a strategy he has to have Lomachenko fight a 135-pound debut bout later this year to set up a date next summer with Garcia (37-0, 30 knockouts), who also has interest in fighting the Jorge Linares-Luke Campbell winner following their Sept. 23 lightweight title bout at the Forum.
"This fight could be on pay-per-view because all the fans have been asking about it," Garcia said, later expressing openness to fighting on whatever network offers the best financial package.
"We're the main names.
No other names can generate that kind of attention.
Whenever they're ready ... ."
Garcia said he appreciates Lomachenko as "a tremendous fighter," and may attend his Saturday bout.
But Lomachenko paused at lavish praise for Garcia, saying he thought the three-division champion from Riverside looked "very slow, sorry Mikey ... you wanted the knockout."
Garcia said the focus was to show punching strength, then box.
They both said they can feel the momentum building for their own bout.
"This is the fight to be made.
No other fight creates as much attention and buzz.
I'm more than happy to work at it," Garcia said.
Said Lomachenko: "I've waited for the top fighters, and this is Mikey.
It will be a great fight."
New results of Sweden's asylum age assessment tests released
The latest results of tests on asylum seekers in Sweden subjected to a new method of medically assessing their age show that over 80 percent tested were judged to be older than 18, but not everyone has faith in their accuracy.
Sweden's national Forensic Medicine Agency (Rättsmedicinalverket) started carrying out the tests earlier year.
They are designed to make age assessment during the asylum process more accurate after the Swedish Migration Agency (Migrationsverket) was criticized for failings in assessing the correct age of some refugees claiming to be underage.
To date Migrationsverket has sent 6,880 cases to be tested, and the Forensic Medicine Agency has now released the results of a total of 2,481 tests from the period between mid March until July 31st, 2017.
Eighty percent (2002) were judged to be 18 or over, while in a further 25 cases the Forensic Medicine Agency judged that the subject was "possibly 18 or over."
In 432 cases the conclusion was that the person is "possibly under 18."
The tests are only carried out in cases where the person's age is in question.
According to Johan Göransson from the Forensic Medicine Agency, the results are consistent with previous months.
"We see no big difference in the statistics from previous months, the numbers are quite consistent," he told The Local.
The high proportion of cases judged to be over 18 does not necessarily mean that the asylum seeker lied about their age.
In May, the agency released the results of 581 tests and said that there were 442 instances that "suggest the person examined is 18 years or older."
When newspaper Svenska Dagbladet investigated the 581 results released however it found that in 243 of the cases the person had openly stated that they turn 18 this year.
The method of medical age assessment, which consists of taking X-rays of wisdom teeth and MRI scans of knee joints, then having dentists and radiologists analyse them, has also been criticised in some quarters.
One sceptic is Karolinska Institute endocrinologist Claude Marcus, whose work includes assessing the biological maturity of people to see if they went through puberty earlier or later than usual.
"I've had reason to think about this, and I don't think the type of measurement being used should be.
Judging biological age in this way is very uncertain.
If we can't say it for sure we shouldn't pretend that we can," he told newspaper Metro.
The Forensic Medicine Agency's Göransson defended the accuracy of the tests however: "In general you can say that the risk of inaccurately judging a child to be an adult is small.
The biggest risk is if the person is just under 18, in which case it's around 10 percent."
West Virginia governor announces he's switching parties
The Democratic governor of West Virginia, Jim Justice, announced Thursday night at a rally with President Trump that he's switching parties.
"Like it or not like it, the Democrats walked away from me," Gov. Justice said.
"Today I will tell you with lots of prayers and lots of thinking ... today I will tell you as West Virginians, I can't help you anymore being a Democratic governor."
The rally erupted in cheers.
"So tomorrow, I will be changing my registration to Republican," Justice added.
"As a coach, I would tell you it's time to run another play."
Mr. Trump promised earlier a big announcement at the West Virginia rally.
Mr. Trump won West Virginia by 42 points, and Justice did not endorse the Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton.
Justice, who is the only billionaire in the state, according to Forbes, was elected in 2016.
Forbes notes that he owns coal mines in five states, having inherited a coal business from his father.
He's worth about $1.59 billion.
Meanwhile, the Republican National Committee released a statement Thursday night saying "Governor Justice's party switch is another blow to a Democratic Party that would rather obstruct than work to make our country great again."
"With only 15 governorships and control of the fewest state legislatures in history, Governor Justice's announcement is just the latest rejection of a party that is leaderless from top to bottom and unable to find a positive, unifying message," RNC chairwoman Ronna McDaniel said in a statement to CBS News.
Coe praises 'candid' Russian apology for doping scandal
Global athletics boss Sebastian Coe praised what he described as a candid apology from Russia over a doping scandal on Thursday but reiterated it was not the moment for the country to be readmitted to the sport.
Russia's athletics boss Dmitry Shylakhtin told an IAAF Congress, held on the eve of the World Athletics Championships, that his country's ban from the sport was correct and that he was determined to fight doping.
He said he was sorry to "all athletes who have had gold and silver medals snatched from them at competitions."
Despite his comments, the IAAF Congress voted in favor of maintaining the ban, imposed in November 2015 after a World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) report found evidence of state-sponsored doping in Russia.
"I thought it was a very candid response today, a very candid presentation," IAAF president Coe told reporters.
"The whole Council and the whole Congress was pleased ... that the Russian federation recognized themselves that they have been through some pretty torrid times and are doing everything possible to make sure the federation is reengineered."
Coe said he was also "pleased" that Russia accepted the criteria for its reintroduction.
"I think it was a very constructive day and I think progress is being made, but the Congress supports the recommendations of the task force that this was not the moment to reinstate Russia," said Coe.
"We need to do everything over the next few months to normalize this situation.
The guiding principle has always been that we wanted to separate the clean athletes from the tainted system," he added
Nineteen Russian athletes will be competing as neutrals at the World Athletics Championships which start in London on Friday, having met strict IAAF criteria.
The head of the IAAF's Task Force, Rune Andersen, said on Monday that Russia had yet to meet several of the criteria for reinstatement.
Drug-testing was still insufficient and banned coaches were still operating freely, he told reporters in London after a presentation to the IAAF Council.
How soccer's financial rules impact Neymar's move to Paris
Rules aimed at preventing unfettered spending by European soccer clubs will not disrupt Neymar's world-record transfer from Spain's Barcelona to France's Paris-Saint Germain.
Any consequences will come further down the line for Paris Saint-Germain from UEFA, the governing body overseeing the European game which has the power to ban teams from the prestigious Champions League tournament.
Financial Fair Play rules launched by UEFA in 2011 mean that PSG will eventually have to show that Neymar's transfer was funded without incurring huge losses.
Barcelona has been paid 222 million euros ($262 million) just to buy the Brazilian out of his contract and Neymar will command a salary that will run to tens of millions of dollars a year.
Here are some of the financial aspects of Neymar's move to France.
PSG can certainly stump up the cash to sign Neymar and add him to a galaxy of other stars, given the team's funding from the energy-rich ruling family of Qatar.
Clubs are allowed to spend heavily on acquiring players but they have to counterbalance that with legitimate sources of income, allowing them to approach break-even on their football-related business.
FFP was conceived by Michel Platini after his election as UEFA president in 2007.
The former France player believed that clubs who ran up huge debts in their pursuit of success were effectively cheating and risking ruin if banks or owners withdrew their support.
In 2011, FFP shifted from focusing on clubs' debts to monitoring their losses instead.
The change meant that the business model Roman Abramovich initially used at Chelsea in 2003 - buy a club with potential, and then spend heavily to improve the squad and build a global brand - become a tougher proposition.
During the current three-year FFP assessment period that runs through 2018, clubs can incur losses of 30 million euros.
And despite Platini being ousted in disgrace from the presidency in 2015, his UEFA successor Aleksander Ceferin is still committed to deterring excessive spending.
"Certainly FFP is not dead and we will, for sure, reinforce the rules going forward," Andrea Traverso, who oversees FFP at UEFA, told The Associated Press last week.
Although PSG will have paid Neymar's buyout clause in one lump sum, it can spread the amount for accounting purposes over the length of his contract.
Neymar has signed a five-year deal, so the transfer fee could be shown as a 44.4 million-euro cost in the annual accounts for the next five years.
The first wave of FFP sanctions in 2014 saw PSG, along with Abu Dhabi-owned Manchester City, hit with the heaviest sanctions.
PSG was handed a fine of 60 million euros (then $82 million) - that was later reduced to 20 million euros - and ordered to limit its Champions League squads to 21 players for the 2014-15 season instead of the normal 25.
UEFA is on the lookout for clubs who might try to outwit its financial regulators by inflating their income through companies linked to a club's owners.
While a Qatari company could sponsor PSG, if the value of the sponsorship was deemed to exceed standard market rates UEFA would not allow it to count as legitimate income.
That is what happened in 2014 when UEFA ruled that the value of the Qatar Tourism Authority sponsorship of PSG was inflated.
It has been reported that part of Neymar's PSG earnings could come via payments from the 2022 World Cup organizing committee in Qatar.
But PSG and Qatar 2022 have denied that Neymar will become a World Cup ambassador and such a maneuver would be easy for UEFA's regulators to expose.
Past sanctions slapped on PSG means that UEFA will be even more watchful of any attempt to circumvent the rules.
UEFA has not been in pre-emptive discussions with PSG about Neymar's transfer, people familiar with the situation said Thursday.
They spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity as they were not authorized to discuss the PSG situation.
The last published accounts show that PSG made a profit of more than 10 million euros in 2015-16 on a turnover of 542.4 million euros.
Accounts for the last financial year are yet to be published.
PSG expects Neymar's arrival to be a boon for sponsorship deals, merchandising and jersey sales.
The club expects turnover would grow by at least 30 percent on the back of the signing.
Clearly irritated to see one of soccer's biggest players leaving, the Spanish league tried to stymie Neymar's move, claiming that PSG will be breaching FFP.
"It is a clear case of 'financial doping', with the club and the state," La Liga President Javier Tebas told Spanish newspaper AS, referring to Qatar's ultimate ownership of PSG.
Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger, whose club is owned by an American sports tycoon, shares La Liga's reservations about a state funding a club.
"It is the consequence of the ownerships and that has completely changed the whole landscape of football in the last 15 years," Wenger said Thursday.
"Once a country owns a club, everything is possible.
It becomes very difficult to respect the Financial Fair Play because you can have different ways or different interests for a country to have such a big player to represent a country."
Nostalgia Goes Niche in "Wet Hot American Summer" and "Comrade Detective"
So this iteration of the story is simultaneously nostalgic for the characters' '80s glory days; for the '90s grunge era (around when the masterminds David Wain and Michael Showalter made the sketch comedy "The State" for MTV); and for itself - that is, for 2001, before its stars, like Elizabeth Banks, Amy Poehler and Paul Rudd, went on to bigger things.
As a cultural artifact, it's both a sendup and embodiment of our Facebook-enabled era of permanent reminiscence.
But as a franchise, it feels like it's running out of time.
"First Day of Camp" worked surprisingly well, not just because of its absurdist humor (it included an origin story for a talking can of vegetables, voiced by H. Jon Benjamin).
By doubling down on the core gag - middle-age actors playing horny kids coming of age - it made the impossibility of recapturing the past part of the joke.
"Ten Years Later," with its adults now playing adults, is less emotionally rooted and its parody more scattershot, including a riff on '90s stalker flicks like "The Hand That Rocks the Cradle."
At one point a character rummages through an Apple Powerbook, some in-line skates and "a bunch of other things from 1991."
Many of the core stories are the same.
Sweet-hearted Coop (Mr. Showalter), now a novelist, still hasn't gotten over Katie (Marguerite Moreau).
Victor (Ken Marino) still hasn't lost his virginity.
And there's another battily villainous plot involving Ronald Reagan (also Mr. Showalter), now abetted by George H. W. Bush (a well-inhabited impression by Michael Ian Black).
As always, the best part of the franchise is the digressions.
It's especially fun to see the forever-young Mr. Rudd, sporting Matt Dillon's soul patch from "Singles," whose former big-man-on-camp Andy now feels like a geezer.
It's the moments of random lunacy that might power this franchise on, like a kind of recursive "Seven Up!" series, until it reaches what I assume will be its logical conclusion: "Wet Hot American Summer: Twenty Years Later," whose last scene will have the gang going to see the movie premiere of "Wet Hot American Summer."
"Comrade Detective" on Amazon, meanwhile, appeals to a different brand of nostalgia: the Cold War revivalism of "The Americans," the film "Atomic Blonde" and even "GLOW," with its East versus West wrestling iconography.
The comedy, created by Brian Gatewood and Alessandro Tanaka, with Rhys Thomas directing, purports to be found TV: a Romanian 1980s buddy-cop drama about two Bucharest officers fighting for truth, atheism and the Marxist-Leninist way.
The lead roles - hard-boiled Gregor and idealistic Iosef - are played by Florin Piersic Jr. and Corneliu Ulici, their dialogue dubbed in English by Channing Tatum (also an executive producer) and Joseph Gordon-Levitt.
It's a brilliant idea.
But it's not much more than an idea.
There are some fine sight gags (the police pass the time watching chess on TV as Americans might football).
And the roster of famous voice-over actors - among them Jenny Slate, Nick Offerman, Mahershala Ali and Chloë Sevigny - makes for a decent game of spot-the-voice.
But "Comrade Detective" is so committed to the verisimilitude of a hamfisted propaganda drama - a killer wearing a Reagan mask is involved - that it often plays like one.
At six long episodes, it drags, and the comedy isn't fast or frequent enough.
Edited to a tighter length, "Comrade Detective" might deliver better on its agitprop satire, as when Gregor and Iosef repeatedly visit the American Embassy, whose lobby is always occupied by two fat men wolfing down a pile of hamburgers.
The message, for the imagined communist audience, is that Western culture can turn anything into fodder to binge.
The fictional Romanian creators were not wrong: We even do it with our own recent history, and theirs.
Bank of England to keep interest rates at 0.25%
The Bank of England is expected to announce later that interest rates will remain unchanged after lacklustre economic growth and easing inflation dampened speculation over a hike.
The Bank of England has warned economic growth will remain "sluggish" as it kept interest rates on hold amid a tightening squeeze on family incomes.
Policymakers on the Bank's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted 6-2 to keep rates at 0.25%, with fewer members this month calling for a rise as lacklustre economic growth has weakened support for a hike.
In its quarterly inflation report, the Bank cut its forecasts for growth to 1.7% in 2017 and 1.6% in 2018 and cautioned the squeeze on household incomes would continue, with inflation still expected to surge close to 3% in the autumn.
But it signalled rate hikes will be needed over the next few years to rein in Brexit-fuelled inflation and said borrowing costs may need to rise by more than expected in financial markets.
Members also voted to withdraw part of the mammoth economy-boosting package unleashed a year ago in the aftermath of Brexit.
It will call time on the Term Funding Scheme to offer cheap-finance to banks from next February, although it said it was now expected to offer £15 billion more under the scheme - at £115 billion.
In minutes of the rates decision, the Bank said: "In the MPC's central forecast, gross domestic product (GDP) remains sluggish in the near-term as the squeeze on households' real incomes continues to weigh on consumption."
On rates, it reiterated that "some tightening of monetary policy" would be needed to cool inflation and by a "somewhat greater" extent than markets expect.
Markets are currently forecasting the first rise in the third quarter of next year and another in 2020.
But the Bank stressed that any hikes would be "gradual" and "limited."
The Bank's downgraded growth forecasts for this year and next compare with the 1.9% and 1.7% predicted in May.
It maintained its forecast for growth of 1.8% in 2018.
Sterling fell against the dollar and the euro following the news.
The pound was 0.5% down at 1.31 US dollars and fell 0.4% to 1.11 euros.
The no-change decision comes after recent disappointing growth figures have dampened mounting expectations of a hike, with GDP edging up to 0.3% in the second quarter from 0.2% in the previous three months.
Growth is likely to remain at 0.3% in the third quarter, although it will start to pick up slightly at the end of the year, according to the Bank.
Its latest inflation report offered little cheer for households being hit by soaring inflation and paltry pay rises as it said the squeeze will get worse before it gets better.
It added that monetary policy "cannot prevent" the hit to incomes over the next few years, but expects wages will recover "significantly" towards the end of its three-year forecast.
The economy is also set for a boost from surging demand for British goods thanks to the weak pound, which will offset some of the lower consumer spending.
The decision comes a year after rates were cut to 0.25% last August following the shock EU referendum vote, which sent the pound slumping.
The Bank estimates it will likely take four years to fully feed through to prices and the economy.
Prior to the Bank's latest rates verdict, there had been growing clamour for a rate rise as inflation ramped up pressure on hard-pressed households, with three policymakers calling for an increase to 0.5% in July.
Inflation eased back to 2.6% last month from 2.9% in June, although the Bank said this was expected and will pick up once again over the coming months.
The Bank said the overshoot relative to its 2% target was "entirely" down to the weak pound.
Andrew Montlake, director at Coreco Mortgage Brokers, said: "Given the recent fall in swap rates, the mortgage market looks set to become ever more competitive once more as lenders clamour for business and look to end the year in positive fashion.
The market looks particularly good for those who may be coming to the end of their existing deals as re-mortgages, many with fee-free options as well as low rates, become ever more popular."
NHS to prescribe controversial HIV drug to 10,000
Patients will be able to access a 'transformative' HIV prevention treatment from September following a High Court battle over funding the drug on the NHS.
NHS England announced that pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), a pill taken before sex which has been shown to reduce the risk of infection in high-risk individuals by around 86 per cent, will now be provided by the health service through an initial three-year trial to an estimated 10,000 people.
It agreed to fund the trial after the Court of Appeal upheld a High Court ruling last year, which said the NHS had the power to pay for PrEP despite its claims that local authorities should fund it.
The move announced on Thursday was hailed as a 'major new intervention' by NHS England chief executive Simon Stevens while the National Aids Trust (NAT) described it as a 'pivotal moment'.
Sexual health clinics in London, Brighton, Manchester, Liverpool and Sheffield will be among the first to start enrolling people, with more clinics joining in October before full implementation across England by April 2018.
Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) is a course of HIV drugs taken before sex to reduce the risk of getting HIV.
Trials have shown PrEP significantly reduces HIV transmission among those at-risk of infection.
Taking PrEP before sex means there is just enough of certain drugs in a person's body to prevent an HIV infection taking hold.
Such drugs can be taken every day or as soon as two hours before having sex.
Those eligible for the treatment include gay or bisexual men, transgender people and those with HIV-positive partners who are not successfully receiving treatment.
Clinics will identify eligible participants who consent to the trial, including men, women, transgender people, and individuals who have a partner whose HIV status is not known to be controlled by anti-retroviral treatment.
People living and registered with a GP in England will also be able to enrol for potential participation at their local participating sexual health clinic.
The programme will cost £10 million and NHS England signed a contract to source the drugs this week following an international competitive procurement.
The trial is designed to assess the full potential of PrEP by gathering clinical evidence on how it is targeted, taken up, and implemented on a large scale.
Mr Stevens said: 'This major new intervention should complement and supercharge the wide-ranging and increasingly successful effort to prevent HIV.
It's another milestone in more than three decades' worth of progress in tackling one of humanity's major health challenges.'
Deborah Gold, chief executive at NAT (National Aids Trust), said: 'This is a pivotal moment in the fight against HIV.
PrEP, if targeted properly at those in need and at risk, offers the possibility of transforming the English HIV epidemic.
From September, people at high risk of HIV will have access via this NHS-funded trial in England to an empowering new tool that is truly individually controlled and not subject to negotiation with a partner, leading to the improvement of many, many lives.
We warmly welcome this announcement.'
Ian Green, chief executive of the Terrence Higgins Trust, said: 'The priority must now be to make sure that the trial is rolled out speedily across the country, and that no-one at risk of HIV is left behind.
Now that the PrEP trial drug has been procured, we're well on the way to protecting over 10,000 people at risk of HIV.'
Shadow public health minister Sharon Hodgson said: 'The start of the PrEP trial is welcome and long overdue after months of delays and heel-dragging by the Government.
The evidence shows just how transformative this drug can be as part of our approach to HIV prevention and ending the transmission of this life-changing infection.
This trial will take us one step closer to fully understanding the benefits of PrEP.
Now it is important that this trial is rolled out as quickly as possible across the country to protect individuals who are exposed to HIV and help take us one step closer to ending the spread of HIV in society.'
Living the high life: mezzanine floor and clever design tricks have transformed this small Earls Court flat into a spacious home
Joanne Leigh, a former banker with a passion for doing up property, downsized from a large home in Knightsbridge to an Earls Court apartment in 2014.
It is on the first floor of a smart Queen Anne terrace - and it is a testament to the new design that Joanne hasn't packed her bags and sold on.
"Before this, I was living with my ex in Knightsbridge in a much bigger space," Joanne says.
"I was looking for something that was comparable for my price.
I was shown this apartment in Earls Court and it had the same high ceilings.
I fell in love with it and put an offer in that day."
Since the first viewing, the 1,000sq ft flat has had a complete overhaul.
Originally a one-bedroom property with a convoluted layout - you had to walk through the kitchen to get to the bedroom - Joanne wanted to add storage space and a mezzanine to make the most of the generous ceiling height.
"I wanted high ceilings, big windows, lots of light.
That was my requirement," she says.
To this end, she employed Erfan Azadi of Notting Hill-based architecture and design studio Duck & Shed to exploit the 12.5ft ceilings and create a home that wasn't only a development but a place for Joanne to live.
The ceiling wasn't quite tall enough to add two spaces on top of each other so the architectural challenge was to create a mezzanine that you could stand up in.
Erfan had to think creatively to resolve the brief.
"The steelwork is quite complicated," he explains.
"We had to arrange the spaces so that they stacked on top of each other without needing to hunch down.
It wasn't just building a simple platform, but cranking the steels so that they were at the right height for the function above or below."
This arrangement allowed Erfan to get two full-height rooms on top of each other in the space - with lots of added drama.
For the mezzanine, a vintage copper light window from Retrouvius looks down over the glamorous living area below.
Mirrored gold furniture, silver accents and vintage Serge Mouille lighting all set the style for the scheme.
The use of mirrors plays a part in adding theatre, space and light.
A short corridor is mirrored at both ends to make it appear longer.
In the kitchen, the mirrored splashback feels like a window to another room.
At the entrance, mirrored units provide storage for all Joanne's cutlery and glassware.
Giving the perception of a more glamorous space, the beauty of the living room is being able to close off the kitchen when it's not in use.
Foldaway kitchens are nothing new.
What's unique about this one is that it's a garage-style lift-up door.
"A bit of engineering went into that," explains Erfan of the steel-reinforced, veneered MDF door.
"It's counter-weighted so that when you push the door up, it glides really easily."
Thanks to clever use of space and storage, Joanne gained an additional 16sq m, an extra bedroom and an improved layout.
"At the end of the day, floor space is what you are going to sell - or how your property is valued," Erfan says.
"In a rudimentary form, a real estate agent will walk in and do a calculation based on floor size."
Here they have managed to increase the floor space while using quality materials that give the space its luxurious edge.
"The materials are the things that you touch and therefore help to create an emotional bond in a home," says Erfan.
"You don't fall in love with the electrical feeds in the walls.
These are important but they don't pull the heart strings."
It goes to show that through good design and increased square metreage, a flat can turn from something standard into something quite amazing.
In fact, like Joanne, you may choose not to leave.
Brothers fight over $500 million property empire
Two brothers are at war over one of Victoria's biggest real estate empires, worth more than $500 million, four decades after their Italian family founded the dynasty.
Former Carlton Football Club director and developer Colin De Lutis lives in a Toorak mansion three doors from younger brother Paul, who has taken him to the Supreme Court over how their property and business assets will be sliced up.
Paul has wanted out of the family business since 2014 but an acrimonious argument is playing out in the Supreme Court over the break-up.
Together with their mother Anna the brothers own 38 properties worth more than half a billion dollars, amassed since the family bought a Smith Street, Collingwood, shop in 1973.
There, the family founded Westco Jeans and grew it into a chain of 160 retail outlets.
It sold in 1999 for $85 million.
That money was sunk into property and the De Lutis portfolio now includes city offices, Brunswick and Sorrento development sites, Gold Coast and Mt Buller apartments, and suburban shopping centres.
Under an agreement with their late father, Colin - described by Paul as "the major driving force and the dominant personality" in the De Lutis family - owns about two-thirds of the company assets and Paul about one-third.
A court filing says this translates to Colin owning property worth $316 million and Paul $176 million.
Dividing the properties and cash has proved the sticking point for Paul.
"The splits proposed by Colin left him with what I considered to be the best properties," he wrote in an initial court affidavit in 2015.
Last Friday, after several failed mediations, the first Supreme Court hearing was held.
The brothers are also now fighting over who controls the existing business - which Paul alleges Colin has locked him out of.
Colin argues this is not true, but accuses Paul of incompetently managing some properties.
In an early affidavit filed by Colin, he says he hopes to resolve the dispute.
"My Italian heritage dictates that family is the most important priority," he wrote.
Costs are mounting in the case, with hundreds of pages of affidavits, emails and reports by companies including Deloitte, Pitcher Partners and Charter Keck Cramer filed and top barristers including Allan Myers, QC, and senior solicitors retained by both sides.
Ms De Lutis and her late husband Luigi were Italian immigrants who ran milk bars and delicatessens from the late 1950s and in the early 1970s bought a shop in Brunswick.
They used the collateral to buy the Collingwood property where Colin opened the family's first jeans store.
Colin says he started Westco there when he was "in my final years of high school, when Paul was a young child (around 10 years old)."
Anna De Lutis says she and Luigi, who died in 2012, hoped to pass down their properties to their sons amicably.
"Luigi often said to me that he never wanted the brothers to end up in court," she wrote.
Two other brothers, Mark and Luke, are no longer part of the De Lutis group of companies, with Colin saying that Mark was paid $10 million when he left the business, and Luke $26 million.
Both Luke and Mark had become, Paul says, "bitter about the terms of their financial separation."
Colin has kept a low profile despite being a former AFL club board member and, according to a 2015 biography of Eddie McGuire, the television star's best friend.
Fairfax Media contacted Colin and Paul De Lutis on Friday, and their lawyers.
Only Colin replied, by text message, to say that because the case was before the courts "I really cannot say much."
"It's very, very sad that my brother Paul has chosen to sue me and drag our family name through the courts," he wrote.
In mid-2016, Colin wrote in one court filing that he had tried to accommodate his brother's requests.
"Our father would not have wanted to see Paul and I end up in our current dispute," he said, adding that he was "still hopeful of resolution."
On Friday, that hope appeared gone.
"Our matter will be resolved by the courts in the near future," Colin wrote.
Trump's new chief of staff plans to restrict the president's media diet.
Others have tried and failed.
Maybe John F. Kelly can actually do it.
If so, he will be the first.
Politico reports that the new White House chief of staff plans to restrict the flow of information to President Trump - including news media reports - in the hope of keeping the boss on a more even keel.
Here's a bit from reporter Josh Dawsey:
"When new White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly huddled with senior staff on his first day at work, he outlined a key problem in President Donald Trump's White House that he planned to fix: bad information getting into the president's hands.
Kelly told the staff that information needed to flow through him - whether on paper or in briefings - because the president would make better decisions if given good information."
Kelly's diagnosis makes perfect sense, but others have tried and failed to tame Trump by monitoring his media diet.
President Trump's relationship with television goes back decades - and now that he's in the White House, his TV-watching habit is still going strong.
"If candidate Trump was upset about unfair coverage, it was productive to show him that he was getting fair coverage from outlets that were persuadable," Sam Nunberg, a former campaign adviser, told Politico in February.
Politico's Tara Palmeri wrote at the time that "the key to keeping Trump's Twitter habit under control, according to six former campaign officials, is to ensure that his personal media consumption includes a steady stream of praise."
Okay.
But the idea that Trump's Twitter habit has ever been "under control" is laughable.
Maybe these campaign officials know something the rest of us don't - that Trump's tweets would have been even more inflammatory if not for their interventions.
We'll probably never know about tweets that Trump didn't send.
If his staffers managed to him out of trouble even a few times, then their efforts were worthwhile.
But no one has been able to consistently prevent Trump from stirring up controversy.
Part of the problem is that in a White House composed of competing factions, people invariably try to advance their agendas by presenting Trump with material - which may or may not be reliable - that promotes their worldviews.
Politico - all over this story - reported in May on advisers' penchants for strategically feeding dubious information to the president.
This was one example, described by reporter Shane Goldmacher:
"Current and former Trump officials say Trump can react volcanically to negative press clips, especially those with damaging leaks, becoming engrossed in finding out where they originated.
That is what happened in late February when someone mischievously gave the president a printed copy of an article from GotNews.com, the website of Internet provocateur Charles C. Johnson, which accused deputy chief of staff Katie Walsh of being 'the source behind a bunch of leaks' in the White House.
No matter that Johnson had been permanently banned from Twitter for harassment or that he offered no concrete evidence or that he had lobbed false accusations in the past and recanted them.
Trump read the article and began asking staff about Walsh."
Goldmacher added that then-chief of staff Reince Priebus and White House staff secretary Rob Porter "have tried to implement a system to manage and document the paperwork Trump receives."
How'd that work out?
Kelly is trying to do the same thing, three months later.
Perhaps he will prove a more effective manager than Priebus, but Trump is still his impulsive self, and his aides are still vying for influence.
Those immutable factors will make Kelly's mission very difficult.
Travellers negotiate trench, return to 'Millionaire's row'
Some of the West Midlands' wealthiest homeowners are again at loggerheads with determined travellers who have negotiated a council-dug trench to reclaim a field outside their mansions.
The travellers have parked their 20 caravans in a field outside a prosperous street of Solihull dubbed 'millionaire's row'.
Bringing horses, babies and an army of vans, they have returned after being kicked out only in May, undeterred by a moat dug by the council to prevent their incursions.
The tactful group found a gap in the defences, squeezing their vehicles though a section left unbarricaded to accommodate a pathway.
Furious residents have savaged Solihull Council saying it was 'useless at dealing with the problem'.
One anonymous resident said: 'They moved there on Monday night after being moved on from Bentley Heath where they were throwing rocks at passers by.
The council needs to be shamed into action as they are useless at dealing with the problem.
The travellers were there in May, were moved on and now they are back again.
More arrived last night, probably even more today.'
She added: 'Birmingham council knows how to deal with this by getting long injunctions to protect their parks.
I live on Streetsbrook road and I'm not happy to continue paying my council tax when the council can't even stop this.'
One local resident who did not wish to be named said: 'It is ridiculous, we have only just seen the last round of these travellers leaving, only to be blighted by another round.
The numbers have increased this time and a horse has even been seen grazing on the parkland.'
A spokeswoman for Solihull Council said: 'We are aware of an unauthorised encampment on land off Streetsbrook Road and working alongside Solihull Police, we are undertaking the necessary legal actions to move them on as quickly as possible.
To support our evidence gathering it is very important that as many local residents as possible report any anti-social or criminal behaviour to the police by calling 101.
This helps build a picture of the situation for the court to consider when we present our case to them.'
Italy toughens tone on NGO migrant rescue boats
Italy has warned NGOs operating migrant rescue boats in the Mediterranean they will not be allowed to continue if they do not sign up to new rules governing their operations.
"If NGOs do not sign up to a new code of conduct, it is difficult to see how they can continue operating," Interior Minister Marco Minniti said in an interview with Turin daily La Stampa.
Minniti's warning came a day after Italian authorities impounded a boat operated by German aid organisatiion Jugend Rettet on suspicion its crew effectively collaborated with people traffickers in a way that facilitated illegal immigration.
The aid organisation, which has only been operational for a year, declined to comment on the substance of detailed allegations made against it by Italian prosecutor Ambrogio Cartosio.
"For us the rescue of human life is and will be our top priority, so we are very sorry we will not be able to operate in the search and rescue zone at the moment," the organisation said in a statement on social media.
"We can only assess all the accusations currently being made after we have gathered all the information and can assess the situation."
Italian authorities had been monitoring Jugend Rettet's boat, the Iuventa, since October.
Its crew is suspected to taking on board dinghy loads of migrants delivered directly to them by people traffickers and allowing the smugglers to make off with the vessels to be used again.
At least one such meeting allegedly took place only 1.3 miles off the Libyan coast, according to the prosecutor's file, the contents of which were published by Italian media.
The crew are suspected of having flouted the authority of the Italian coastguard, which oversees rescue operations in the zone, out of humanitarian zeal rather than for any other motives.
Under the code of conduct, boats like the Iuventa would notably have to have an Italian police officer on board monitoring their activities.
Only three of the nine NGOs involved in search and rescue operations have so far agreed to abide by the code: Save The Children, Malta-based MOAS and Spain's Pro-Activa Open Arms.
The latter said on Thursday it regarded the new rules as unnecessary but acceptable as they would not involve any "significant change or impediment" to its rescue operations.
Among those who have refused to sign is the Nobel Prize-winning organisation Doctors Without Borders (MSF).
Minniti meanwhile said a sharp fall over recent weeks in the number of migrants arriving in Italy following rescues was an indication that efforts to beef up the Libyan coastguard and cooperation with local mayors was bearing fruit.
"In recent days we have begun to see light at the end of the tunnel," the minister said.
He revealed plans for further talks this month with Libyan mayors on economic development initiatives and with Chad, Niger and Mali on measures to reduce the number of migrants leaving those countries in the hope of reaching Europe.
Michelle Carter sentenced for texts urging suicide of Conrad Roy
A Massachusetts woman has been sentenced to two and a half years for encouraging her boyfriend to commit suicide through texts and phone calls.
Michelle Carter, now 20, will serve 15 months of her term behind bars and five years of probation.
Carter was convicted in June of the involuntary manslaughter of Conrad Roy, who took his own life on 13 July 2014.
Mr Roy's father told Thursday's hearing: "My family is heartbroken.
My son was my best friend."
Carter was allowed to remain free pending an appeal.
She had faced a maximum sentence of 20 years, but her legal team argued that both she and Mr Roy suffered from mental illness.
Dressed in red trousers and a cream blouse, Carter stood tearfully with hands clasped and eyes cast down as she was sentenced.
"Her actions killed Conrad Roy," the prosecutor told the court.
"She ended his life to better her own.
She has not accepted responsibility," she said.
"She has shown no remorse."
But Carter's lawyer said it was a "horrible circumstance that she completely regrets."
However, Judge Lawrence Moniz said he did not find that her "age or level of maturity or even her mental illness have any significant impact on her actions."
A prosecutor read a statement from Mr Roy's mother, Lynn Roy, saying there was "not one day I do not mourn the loss of my beloved son.
I want him to be proud of me and how I am handling everything - I am trying to be there for his sisters in all of my pain we will carry with us for eternity," it said.
Mr Roy's sister, Camdyn Roy, testified that she was "haunted" by the realisation that she would never attend her brother's wedding or be an aunt to his children.
"Not having that one person I've been with every day since birth is a pain I'll always keep with me for the rest of my life," she said.
The case appears to set a legal precedent, as there is no Massachusetts law that criminalises telling a person to commit suicide.
Carter was 17 when Mr Roy was found dead of carbon monoxide poisoning in a vehicle in 2014.
The case drew national attention after Carter's text messages revealed she had encouraged him to end his life.
"Hang yourself, jump off a building, stab yourself I don't know there's a lot of ways," she said in several messages sent in the two weeks before his death while he was on holiday with his family.
In the moments before his suicide, she wrote: "You need to do it, Conrad" and "All you have to do is turn the generator on and you will be free and happy."
Judge Moniz said Carter sought attention through Mr Roy's death, ordering that she not be allowed to profit from the case through any press.
The case has divided legal opinion.
Among the few to defend Carter was Amanda Knox, who was convicted of murdering her British roommate in Italy in 2007 before she was cleared two years ago.
Ms Knox, 30, published an op-ed in the Los Angeles Times saying: "Michelle Carter deserves sympathy and help, not prison."
Audi to Modify Up to 850,000 Diesel Vehicles as Carmakers Face Backlash
A day before Audi's announcement, BMW said it would offer to upgrade the software in more than 350,000 vehicles.
The BMW chairman said the company believed "there are more intelligent options than driving restrictions," referring to the European cities - including Munich, where BMW is based - that have considered banning or restricting diesel vehicles.
Daimler announced on Tuesday that it would modify three million Mercedes vehicles in Europe to reduce their diesel emissions.
None of the companies described the moves as recalls.
European carmakers have heavily promoted the use of diesel vehicles in Europe and the United States to help meet rules on carbon dioxide emissions.
But the nitrogen oxides that diesel engines emit are considered carcinogens, and can cause asthma.
The cost to automotive companies of installing equipment to neutralize the fumes emitted by diesel vehicles is also increasing, making it difficult to keep the price of the cars competitive.
As German automakers face scrutiny, the government of Chancellor Angela Merkel has also been accused of coddling the powerful car companies and of ignoring signs of the problem.
The companies are trying to avoid repeating the mistakes of Volkswagen, which covered up its use of so-called defeat devices that could adjust emissions to comply with regulations when a car was being tested, but ease back in normal driving conditions.
Several Volkswagen executives have been charged in the United States, and others are under investigation on both sides of the Atlantic.
Last month, the former head of thermodynamics at Audi's engine development department was arrested in Germany.
The former manager, Zaccheo Giovanni Pamio, is Italian, and therefore is not protected from extradition and could face trial in the United States.
Early this year, Audi was swept up into a German criminal investigation involving Volkswagen after the authorities accused Audi of installing a system to evade emissions rules in Europe, broadening an inquiry that had focused on the United States.
The inclusion of Audi in the investigation could weigh heavily on Volkswagen: The luxury carmaker accounts for a disproportionate share of Volkswagen's profit.
Provence lavender under threat from climate change
It has become a symbol of Provence in southern France, but there is a warning that it's under threat from climate change.
Lavender is in decline because of drought-like conditions and disease-carrying insects, causing a major headache for scientists and farmers attempting to find solutions.
Eric Chaisse, an expert at the Provence-based agricultural research institute CRIEPPAM, said: "Lavender in Provence is effectively endangered, because in recent years the plant has been subjected to the effects of climate change that brought a lot less rain in the spring and mostly in the autumn.
This affects the lifespan of lavender.
There's also a small cicada, a micro-bacteria transmitting leaf hopper, and in very dry weather there are lots of them."
And a lot is at stake.
As well as attracting holidaymakers, lavender oil is highly sought after for perfume and cosmetics.
Eric Chaisse said: "Instead of having very long plant ears with a number of large flowers, we have smaller ones, underdeveloped and either missing or weakened.
So we have fewer parts with essential oil."
Solutions being looked at include better water distribution and slowing down evaporation from the soil, but also spraying the plants with a protective mix of clay and water and developing varieties more resistant to dry conditions.
A journalist's murder underscores growing threat in Mexico
The staff of the weekly newspaper Riodoce normally meets on Wednesdays to review their plans for coverage of the most recent mayhem wrought in Sinaloa state by organized crime, corrupt officials and ceaseless drug wars.
But on this day, in the shadow of their own tragedy, they've come together to talk about security.
It's important to change their routines, they are told.
Two senior journalists discuss what feels safer: to take their children with them to the office, which was the target of a grenade attack in 2009, or to leave them at home.
Security experts have written three words on a blackboard at the front of the room: adversaries, neutrals, allies.
They ask the reporters to suggest names for each column - no proof is needed, perceptions and gut feelings are enough.
There are drug-traffickers, politicians, businesspeople, journalists suspected of being on the payroll of the government or the cartels, a catalog of villains who make the job of covering Mexico's chaos perilous.
There is no respite from the violence, and as bodies pile up across the country, more and more of them are journalists: at least 25 since President Enrique Pena Nieto took office in December 2012, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists; 589 under federal protection after attacks and threats; and so far this year, at least seven dead in seven states.
Among the latest is their editor and inspiration, Riodoce co-founder Javier Valdez Cardenas.
"The greatest error is to live in Mexico and to be a journalist," Valdez wrote in one of his many books on narco-violence.
His absence is felt deeply, although his presence is everywhere - a large photo of Valdez displaying his middle finger, with the word "Justice," hangs on the facade of the Riodoce building; two reporters on their 30s, Aaron Ibarra and Miriam Ramirez, wear T-shirts that display his smiling, bespectacled face or his trademark Panama hat.
The workshop takes place less than two months after his death; the reporters discuss their shared trauma, their nightmares, insomnia, paranoia.
Although a special federal prosecutor's office was established in 2010 to handle the journalists' cases, it has only prosecuted two, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists.
As with most of the thousands of murders tied to drug trafficking and organized crime each year, the killers of journalists are rarely brought to justice.
At Riodoce, they persist in covering the violence of Sinaloa, though they are heartbroken, though the terrain is more treacherous now.
Without information on the killers, without justice, the meeting to discuss security, says Ibarra, is of little use.
"It's very foolish to waste my time in this workshop," he says.
"As long as we don't know why, you distrust everyone."
On the morning of May 15, Valdez left the Riodoce office in the state capital of Culiacan.
He managed to drive just a couple blocks before his red Toyota Corolla was stopped by two men; he was forced out of his car and shot 12 times, presumably for the name of the paper - which translates as Twelfth River.
The gunman drove away in his car and crashed it nearby.
Valdez was 50 years old.
He left a wife and two adult children.
Rumors tend to fly freely in Culiacan.
But on the subject of Valdez, there's practically nothing but silence.
Since Guzman's arrest last year and extradition to the United States in January, Sinaloa has been one of the country's bloodiest battlegrounds as rival factions fight to fill the vacuum.
Never mind that someone or several people are shot dead in the street every day in Sinaloa, or that the cemetery is filled with ornate, two-story mausoleums for drug kings, larger than many homes for the living.
Forget for a minute that a state of "calm" is when just one cartel is in control of the coastal state with its valuable ports and drug-trafficking routes to the United States.
Despite that, and the fact that Valdez was intimately aware of the perils of his work, Ismail Bojorquez, 60, a co-founder and director of Riodoce, is wracked with guilt for failing to protect his friend.
He believes two errors contributed to the killing.
First there was the publication in February of an interview with Damaso Lopez, a leader of one of the rival cartel factions at war with Guzman's sons.
The piece may have angered the sons; suspected gang members bought up every copy of the edition as soon as they were delivered to newsstands.
The second mistake was not forcing Valdez to leave the country for his own safety after the seizure of another newspaper that carried the same story.
Valdez was a legend in Mexico and abroad, and his killing is seen as a milestone in Mexican violence against journalists.
He'd survived for so long, his friends and colleagues assumed he'd always be there.
He was a veteran reporter for Noroeste in 2003 when he joined five colleagues in creating Riodoce, selling $50 shares.
In Sinaloa, "it was impossible to do journalism without touching the narco issue," said Bojorquez.
Over time the paper earned a reputation for brave and honest coverage, and sales and advertising increased.
Reporters loved being able to publish hard-hitting investigations without fear of censorship, and readers were fascinated by a publication where they could read stories nobody else dared to cover.
Eight years after Riodoce was founded, it won the prestigious Maria Moors Cabot award for coverage in Latin America.
That same year, Valdez won the International Press Freedom Award of the Committee to Protect Journalists for his courage in pursuing the Mexican drug story wherever it led.
He freely acknowledged that he was frightened.
"I want to carry on living," he said at the time of the CPJ award.
Drug trafficking in Sinaloa "is a way of life," he said last October, in an interview with Rompeviento TV.
"You have to assume the task that falls to you as a journalist - either that or you play dumb.
I don't want to be asked, 'What were you doing in the face of so much death ... why didn't you say what was going on?'"
The Riodoce staff misses Valdez, the jokester who swore like a longshoreman, the friend generous with hugs and advice, a teacher who knew how to survive.
They relied on his routine.
He would always wear his hat.
He would go to El Guayabo, the bar across from the office, and would always sit at the same table.
Now, they ask: Was his love of routine his downfall?
His death also has forced them to question their own assumptions about how best to do their jobs and stay alive.
"They don't like it if you mess with their women, their children, their clean businesses, their clandestine airstrips" used to move drugs.
"Those things were off-limits," said Bojorquez.
The result is, even in the best of times, a high-level of self-censorship and self-preservation.
Trusting one's instincts.
If it smells wrong, stay away.
The trouble, said Riodoce editor Andres Villarreal, is that "smell is a sense that can be fooled ... and then the thing with Javier happened."
The old rules, he and others say, no longer apply in Sinaloa - just as they don't in Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Guerrero and other states that are home to a toxic mix of lucrative smuggling routes, weak institutions and corrupt government officials.
The landscape constantly shifts.
In the room where Riodoce staff met for security training, suddenly no cellphones were allowed; days before, it was revealed that spyware sold exclusively to governments had been used to monitor journalists and activists in Mexico.
Outside, two police officers sought relief from the 104-degree (40 Celsius) heat in the shade of a tree.
They were assigned by the state government to guard Riodoce's offices, housed in a four-story building in a middle-class neighborhood of Culiacan.
Half-jokingly, some of the reporters wondered whether these officers are among the 50 percent of cops whom the governor himself has said are not trustworthy.
It has been months since the reporters have gone into the mountainous countryside, where the drug gangs are in de facto control.
For this week's edition Riodoce was looking at three main stories.
There was the killing of former boxing great Julio Cesar Chavez's brother in Sinaloa.
They also had an expose on government spending concentrated in the governor's hometown.
And there was a group kidnapping in one of Culiacan's most expensive restaurants, a block from the prosecutor's office.
There was no official word on who was abducted or how it happened, so caution set in when it came time to write what everyone in the city knows: that the restaurant is a favorite of both drug traffickers and authorities.
A reporter learned from public records that the restaurant was registered under the name of a politician belonging to the ruling Institutional Revolution Party, or PRI, which dominated all levels of politics for nearly all of the last century.
Recently several PRI governors have been accused of corruption in high-profile cases.
Villarreal asked the reporter to write about prior incidents in that locale, including one in which a son of "El Chapo" Guzman escaped a military raid.
Just months before, readers would have looked to Valdez's column for the best-sourced information about the kidnapping.
"Before, we would have already known what happened," said Villarreal, 46, nicknamed "El Flaco" for his slender build.
"Now all channels of communication with our sources have been broken."
Valdez's office has been repurposed as a storage room for signs and stickers protesting journalist killings, as staff have become something they never expected to be: activists on behalf of the press.
Reporter Miriam Ramirez grabbed a few of the signs and headed out the next morning for a demonstration at the local prosecutor's office over yet another journalist.
Salvador Adame disappeared in the western state of Michoacan three days after Valdez was killed.
A burned body has been discovered and officials say it is his, based on DNA tests.
Nationwide, journalists have become more vocal, scrawling "SOS Press" on sidewalks and buildings in organized protests.
On this day, the director Bojorquez is away in Washington, trying to rally international support for justice in the Valdez case.
At a meeting with the governor of Sinaloa the day after Valdez was killed, Ramirez accused authorities of spying on journalists and having them killed for telling the truth.
She has since asked to be reassigned from covering the government, concerned that her anger has hurt her objectivity.
Valdez had repeatedly said that journalists in Mexico are "surrounded" by organized crime, complicit government officials and an indifferent society.
In his last book, "Narco-journalism," he wrote that reporters are being killed not just by drug gangs but on the order of politicians and security forces in cahoots with organized crime.
The media watchdog group Articulo 19 attributed more than half of attacks on journalists last year to police and public officials.
"In Mexico you die because they want to shut you up," Ramirez said.
Clearly, the murders have a chilling effect.
No one forgets the death six years ago of blogger Maria Elizabeth Macias in the northern border state of Tamaulipas.
Her body was found along with a note purportedly signed by the Zetas cartel: "Here I am because of my reports."
A computer keyboard and headphones lay next to her severed head.
Some outlets have opted to close, such as the newspaper El Norte, in the northern border state of Chihuahua, after the killing of correspondent Miroslava Breach in March.
Others keep going, as El Manana of Nuevo Laredo did following the killing of its director in 2004.
In 2010, Diario de Ciudad Juarez addressed the drug cartels publicly with a front-page editorial titled, "What do you want from us?"
Some journalists have fled their home states or even the country.
It's a wrenching decision.
It's hard to find work in exile, and they still scan the streets, looking for danger.
And sometimes, they are hunted down, as apparently was photographer Ruben Espinosa, who was murdered in 2015 along with four women in a Mexico City apartment three months after fleeing Veracruz.
For those who stay behind and continue the work, it's a daily dance of high-risk decisions.
Ibarra - who once wanted to be a poet - admits that covering the drug trade scares him.
"Mexico is going to hell, and that's why I became a reporter," he said.
At midnight on a recent Friday, with the latest issue already put to bed, Riodoce editors sat on the sidewalk outside the office, drinking beer, when all at once, their phones began to buzz.
A series of shootouts involving gang rivals and security forces near the beach resort city of Mazatlan had left 19 confirmed dead.
The war continued to escalate, as was promised by a series of cartel messages discovered in the area.
From the curb, via cellphone, they put the news up on Riodoce's website.
The front page would have to be changed the next day.
Sirens wailed nearby - another shootout in the area.
Bojorquez glanced over at the police officers standing guard to see if they were alert.
If they were at all afraid, they didn't show it.
Beneath the massive portrait of their newspaper's fallen founder, his middle finger displayed for all of Sinaloa to see, the staff of Riodoce was following in his footsteps.
"How can you even think of closing," Bojorquez said, "when the same day Javier was killed the intern asked me to send her out to report on the street?"
Dinosaur used camouflage to evade its enemies
At first glance, it looks like a statue albeit a terrifying one.
Now researchers have revealed the first findings from the incredible rhino-sized creature found by a Canadian miner were so well preserved experts have described it as 'the Mona Lisa of dinosaurs'.
It was so well preserved, they were even able to determine the colour of its scaly skin was a reddish brown - and say it had something of a 'troubled past'.
The report in the journal Current Biology described it as 'the best-preserved armored dinosaur ever found, and one of the best dinosaur specimens in the world.'
The fossil is a newfound species of nodosaur, which lived midway through the Cretaceous period, between 110 million and 112 million years ago.
It's incredible well preserved state has stunned researchers, who describe it as 'truly remarkable'
The armoured plant-eater is the best preserved fossil of its kind ever found, according to reports in National Geographic.
It was found by Shawn Funk, when he was digging at the Suncor Millenium Mine near Fort McMurray in northern Alberta, Canada, on March 21, 2011.
He hit something which seemed out of place from the surrounding rock, and decided to take a closer look.
The fossil he uncovered was sent to the Royal Tyrrell Museum of Paleontology.
They spent the next six years working on uncovering the beast within the 2,500-pound (1,100 kg) lump of earth.
After all that hard work, the finished result is now ready to be unveiled.
'If you just squint your eyes a bit, you could almost believe it was sleeping,' said lead author Caleb Brown, a scientist at the Royal Tyrrell Museum where the creature is on display.
'It will go down in science history as one of the most beautiful and best preserved dinosaur specimens - the Mona Lisa of dinosaurs.'
By studying its skin, researchers found that this plant-eater, though covered in armor and resembling a walking tank, likely faced a significant threat from meat-eating dinosaurs.
The heavily armoured dinosaur used red and white camouflage to hide from predators, and employed a shielding technique known as counter-shading, which is also used by many modern-day animals.
This would have allowed it to better blend into its surroundings and evade its enemies, experts say, suggesting it was preyed on by larger dinosaurs.
The 110-million-year-old creature, part of the nodosaur family, first hit headlines in May and is now on view at the Royal Tyrrell Museum of Palaeontology.
Researchers have now studied and named the beast Borealopelta markmitchelli after museum technician Mark Mitchell, one of a team who spent more than 7,000 hours painstakingly uncovering it.
The amazing preservation of the specimen made it possible for Dr Mitchell and an international team of scientists to document the pattern and shape of scales and armour across its body.
They discovered countershading, a common method of defence in the animal kingdom, which means the top of the creature was darker than its underside.
Although countershading is common, the findings come as surprise because Borealopelta's size far exceeds that of countershaded animals alive today.
It suggests the dinosaur was hunted by enough pressure meat-eating dinosaurs that evolution favoured concealment over confrontation as a means of survival.
But most contemporary animals that have countershading -- think deer, zebras or armadillos -- are much smaller and more vulnerable as prey, signaling that this nodosaur faced a real struggle to survive.
'Strong predation on a massive, heavily-armored dinosaur illustrates just how dangerous the dinosaur predators of the Cretaceous must have been,' said Brown.
Chemical analysis of organic compounds in its scales also reveal that the dinosaur's skin would have been reddish brown.
Scientists are continuing to study the animal for clues about its life, including its preserved gut contents to find out what it ate for its last meal.
They believe that when the dinosaur died, it fell into a river and was swept out to sea, where it sank on its back to the ocean floor.
At that time, Alberta was as warm as south Florida is today, and rivers and oceans likely spread far further inland than they do now.
'This nodosaur is truly remarkable in that it is completely covered in preserved scaly skin, yet is also preserved in three dimensions, retaining the original shape of the animal,' said Brown.
'The result is that the animal looks almost the same today as it did back in the Early Cretaceous.
You don't need to use much imagination to reconstruct it; if you just squint your eyes a bit, you could almost believe it was sleeping.'
The Cretaceous was a time when giant theropods, meat-eating dinosaurs that stood on two legs, roamed the Earth.
Although the king of them all, Tyrannosaurus rex, lived millions of years after Borealopelta, the armoured dinosaur may have been hunted by some of its formidable ancestors.
They include Acrocanthosaurus, a 38ft (11.5m) long monster weighing six tonnes.
The scientists, whose latest findings appear in the journal Current Biology, believe Borealopelta was washed out to sea after it died and mummified in mud.
The creature was found by Shawn Funk, when he was digging at the Millenium Mine near Fort McMurray in northern Alberta, Canada, on March 21, 2011.
According to the museum, it is the best preserved armoured dinosaur in the world, including skin and armour, and is complete from the snout to hips.
The creatures were around 18 feet (five metres) long on average, and weighted up to 3,000 pounds (1,300 kg).
It featured two 20-inch-long spikes which protruded from its shoulders.
The researchers believe that the this armored plant-eater lumbered through what is now western Canada, until a flooded river swept it into open sea.
But the dinosaur's undersea burial preserved its armor in exquisite detail.
The fossilised remains of this particular specimen are so well preserved that remnants of skin still cover bumpy armour plates along the dinosaur's skull.
As Michael Greshko wrote for National Geographic, such level of preservation 'is a rare as winning the lottery.
The more I look at it, the more mind-boggling it becomes.
Fossilized remnants of skin still cover the bumpy armor plates dotting the animal's skull.
Its right forefoot lies by its side, its five digits splayed upward.
I can count the scales on its sole.'
How one activist came to learn the answer to the question: 'Whose Streets?'
On Aug. 9, 2014, Brittany Ferrell was shaken to her core.
Just a day after arriving in New York City on a trip, the St. Louis native sat on the bed of an Airbnb she was renting, scrolling through Facebook on her phone.
She stumbled upon a post from someone from high school.
"The police just killed an 18 year old kid and he's still laying in the street," it read.
Confused, noticing no one else on her feed had posted the information, she closed Facebook and opened Twitter.
A user with the handle @TheePharoah was being constantly retweeted onto her timeline.
The St. Louis-area rapper was live-tweeting the death of Michael Brown, an unarmed black 18-year-old killed by a white police officer in Ferguson, Mo.
He posted a picture of Brown's lifeless body stretched out in the street, where it would stay for four hours.
"This is wild," Ferrell thought to herself.
But death was nothing new for her and her community.
She put down her phone only to return later that evening to tweets about people gathering on Canfield Drive.
There were photos of police tape and people yelling, and of a guy claiming to be Brown's father holding a sign that read, "Ferguson police just killed my unarmed son!"
She watched a live feed where a police officer stood in front of a group of protesters with a barking dog.
In another video, a different cop, she said, cocked his rifle and screamed, "I'll kill all you ... animals."
"'This is not usual,'" Ferrell recalled saying.
"'This isn't the type of murder that we've become used to and can call typical.'
In that moment I felt chills.
I was angry and crying."
She booked a return flight and went home the next day.
After landing at 11 p.m., she picked up her 6-year-old daughter from her dad's house and decided the two of them would head to Ferguson the next morning.
What happened, to Ferrell and to Ferguson in the following almost three years is the subject of a new documentary, "Whose Streets?," in theaters Aug. 11.
It's a tale of survival and protest, love and loss, strength and resilience from the vantage point of the people who live in the community and packed the streets demanding answers.
As Ferrell drove to Ferguson with her daughter, who was wearing a floral dress and matching crown, the two revisited a conversation they'd had countless times before that morning "about the black experience and black condition."
"You remember how I taught you about when black people had to fight for what they believed in?" she recalled saying.
"We're going to Ferguson right now because the police killed an 18-year-old boy and it wasn't right.
I couldn't not take her," Ferrell said later.
"This happening today is a culmination of ... that has happened in the past.
She needs to know it and see it and be raised in it.
She needs to be well developed in the area of not just activism and organizing but knowing the different layers of the black experience and the black condition and what we must do to get free, to free ourselves.
Even if I'm fortunate enough to provide her an experience where she doesn't personally experience blatant racism, she is no different than the next black woman-child.
I feel like I would be doing her a disservice to shield her from that."
The first stop when they arrived in Ferguson was on South Florissant Road, a site across from the police department that became a campground of sorts as the activists awaited word of Officer Darren Wilson's eventual non-indictment.
There Ferrell and her daughter linked up with a local business owner who was making sack lunches.
They prepared bags and helped pass them out to protesters.
Slowly, a new type of activism began to take shape for Ferrell.
"My activism completely transformed after Aug. 9," she said, noting that while an undergrad at the University of Missouri-St. Louis, she was president of the Minority Student Nurses Assn. and focused on food justice and health disparities in black communities.
"I had no experience in organizing.
It all just came."
Weeks later, Ferrell met Sabaah Folayan, one of the film's co-directors, during an evening demonstration.
Folayan said she and her director of photography Lucas Alvarado-Farrar "just wanted to document" what was happening.
A question came to Ferrell's mind: "Do you want to document or are you trying to find a story that you can exploit?"
That skepticism was informed by countless instances of people - often white - coming into a community to profit off its pain and resilience.
As Folayan explained in a recent interview, "We had heard that people who are born and raised in Ferguson were not having their voices centered, and we wanted to do it differently."
Folayan had already linked up with co-director Damon Davis, an area artist known for his activism around death row inmates.
His involvement endeared Ferrell to the project, along with six other locals the "Whose Streets?" team followed in the years after Brown's shooting.
"This documentary is not somebody speaking for us or speaking to us, it's us speaking," Davis said.
"That was the main thing for me, how these people will be represented, because that's how I will be represented."
While the goal wasn't to focus on Ferrell's experience - in an effort to show that the movement is "not about a messiah leader but a community coming together," Folayan said - she proved to be the most open of the film's participants.
As a result, "Whose Streets?" documents surprisingly personal aspects of Ferrell's life, like falling in love and marrying her wife.
"I felt like I was naked," said Ferrell, laughing about the first time she saw the finished product.
"But I understood that with doing this work and humanizing black folks, there has to be a level of vulnerability."
Moreover, Ferrell's story reiterates and re-centers the role of black queer women in the broader Black Lives Matter movement.
Two of the movement's three founders - who coined #BlackLivesMatter on social media in the aftermath of the 2012 killing of black teen Trayvon Martin - identify as queer.
"Black queer women in leadership has sustained the movement overall," said Ferrell, "and that's because we're constantly at battle on multiple fronts.
Black queer women have to bear the brunt of it all."
Folayan agreed noting that "the movement is really upheld by black women and a lot of queer black women."
She insists, however, that "this is not some affirmative action type of thing" where Ferrell was chosen as the film's heart because of her identities.
"She was the person who was galvanizing this energy," she said.
"It's not a coincidence though she was on the front lines, because living life at those intersections as a black queer woman, you have so much on the line.
You can feel her energy through the screen."
Meanwhile, back in Ferguson, the news cameras are long gone but fraught racial ties between the community and police persist.
Ferrell is on probation for 2½ more years for blocking a highway during a demonstration.
She describes the socio-political atmosphere of the area she calls home simply: "A mess."
Still, she clings to a chant she's committed to memory since taking to Ferguson's streets a full three years ago.
"It is our duty to fight for our freedom.
It is our duty to win.
We must love and support each other.
We have nothing to lose but our chains."
A Becoming Resemblance: artist creates portraits using Chelsea Manning's DNA
In the center of the room at New York's Fridman Gallery are multiple faces - white, black and brown, each bearing an almost imperceptible resemblance to one another - suspended on wires from the ceiling.
The 30 portraits were created by the artist Heather Dewey-Hagborg from cheek swabs and hair clippings sent to her by Chelsea Manning.
Manning sent the clippings from the Fort Leavenworth prison, where the former intelligence analyst was serving a 35-year sentence after famously leaking classified diplomatic cables through the website WikiLeaks.
The new exhibition, which opened on 2 August, is titled A Becoming Resemblance.
It's the product of two years of correspondence between Dewey-Hagborg, whose discipline combines her expertise in technology, computer science and art, and Manning, a trans woman and pioneering dissident whose sentence was commuted by Barack Obama when he had just three days left in office.
By algorithmically analyzing DNA extracted from Manning and using it to create 30 portraits of what someone with that genomic data might look like, Dewey-Hagborg has created a trenchant, if somewhat cerebral, commentary on not only the malleability of DNA data - the many ways it can be interpreted, and the inherent determinism of those interpretations - but also identity.
Manning, who was born Bradley Edward but has spoken openly about identifying as a woman as early as adolescence, was convicted in 2013 on 20 charges, including six Espionage Act violations, computer fraud and theft.
From prison, her image was repressed, so much so that there was just one photo - a granular, black-and-white selfie in which Manning, visibly uneasy, sits in a driver's seat wearing a platinum blonde wig - with which she became associated.
In 2015, Dewey-Hagborg was coming off the massive success of her 2012 project, Stranger Visions.
In it, the artist produced portraits of strangers from forensic artifacts like cigarette butts and chewing gum, extracting DNA from the detritus to conjure an image of what these folks might look like.
That was when she received an email from Paper Magazine.
"They were conducting an interview with Chelsea Manning while she was in prison and they wanted some kind of portrait to accompany that article," Dewey-Hagborg explained at a press preview of the new exhibition.
And she couldn't be visited and she couldn't be photographed at that time, so they reached out to Chelsea and asked if she'd be interested in having a DNA portrait made.
The artist and her incarcerated muse became unlikely pen pals, exchanging several letters over the course of two years.
They even created a comic book, Suppressed Images, illustrated by Shoili Kanungo, that envisioned a future where the president would commute Chelsea's sentence and she'd be able to see the exhibition in person.
That Obama would indeed call for Manning's release just days after the book went public was a welcome sort of serendipity after seven brutal years at a military prison in Kansas.
There's also something profound and powerful about the exhibition opening now, as Donald Trump wages war on government leakers and transgender troops while finding new, tweetable ways to further inflame the stark divisions he's been called on to mend.
When asked about the peculiar timing of it all, Dewey-Hagborg said that "things happen for a reason."
In an artist statement written on the gallery's wall, Manning's super-sized signature below it (the "i" in her last name dotted with a heart), called for an end to the "automatic factionalism that gender, race, sexuality, and culture have been the basis of."
On the opposite wall is her mitochondrial DNA sequence - a centipede of Cs and Gs and As, written in pencil.
By including the 200 letters (or nucleotides, per the artist's sophisticated scientific lexicon), Dewey-Hagborg hoped to illustrate how astoundingly similar, at least in biological makeup, we all are.
"What I'm hoping that people will take away from this is that our genome doesn't care about who we are, and how open genetic data is to interpretation, how subjective it is," said Dewey-Hagborg, whose 2007 video work, Spurious Memories, is also on display.
"DNA data can tell so many different stories, so this is 30 of those stories."
The final piece in the exhibition, which is contained in a single room, is one page from the aforementioned graphic novella.
It shows Manning, emerging, King Kong-esque, from the United States Disiplinary Barracks with a speakerphone in hand.
"When they chill your speech, then they've won," it reads.
"So never shut up."
"It came directly from a letter that she wrote to me," the artist, who hails from Philadelphia, said.
"I get goosebumps still talking about it."
Manning hasn't seen the exhibition in-person yet - as was so presciently imagined in the comic book - but when she does, she'll be greeted in the center of the room by the masks, her own genomic simulacra congregated like hordes of protesters.
That was purposeful, too, as is everything in the exhibition, down to the height (5"2, Manning's stature) at which her genetic haplogroups were written in pencil.
"In the past, I've had them on the wall but I wanted them to feel like a crowd," Dewey-Hagborg said of the portraits.
"I wanted it to feel like a mass movement that was forming with Chelsea, like the movement that was behind freeing her as well."
Northwestern Professor and Oxford University Employee Wanted for Homicide
A nationwide manhunt is underway for a Northwestern University professor and an Oxford University employee who are wanted as suspects after a man was found fatally stabbed inside a luxury Chicago apartment, police said.
On Monday, first-degree murder warrants without bail were issued for Wyndham Lathem, 42, and Andrew Warren, 56, for their alleged involvement in the death of Trenton H. James Cornell-Duranleau, Cook County court records show.
The documents say Cornell-Duranleau, 26, died after being stabbed multiple times.
A community alert released by the Chicago Police Department says the body was discovered on July 27.
Officers received a call and arrived at the Grand Plaza Apartments and found the victim with several lacerations on his body.
Cornell-Duranleau was pronounced dead on the scene and detectives are investigating the stabbing as a homicide while police actively search for the two suspects, officials said.
Lathem has been an associate professor of microbiology and immunology at Northwestern University since 2007.
Alan K. Cubbage, the vice president for university relations, said in an emailed statement that Lathem is now on administrative leave and has been banned from entering Northwestern University campuses.
"This is now a criminal matter under investigation by the appropriate authorities, and Northwestern University is cooperating in that investigation," Cubbage said.
Warren is a senior treasury assistant at Oxford University.
A spokesperson for the university and Somerville College said in an emailed statement that, "We have been in contact with the police in the UK and are ready to help the US investigating authorities in any way they need."
The statement added that Warren's colleagues were shocked and want him to turn himself in.
Chief Communications Officer of the Chicago Police Department Anthony Guglielmi said he strongly encourages the suspects to surrender to authorities.
"Police have an idea of their whereabouts but our efforts to locate that are intensifying," Guglielmi said.
Guglielmi said local, regional and national authorities are helping find the suspects.
Guglielmi said police received a call from the Grand Plaza building manager who had just received a cryptic tip that said something had occurred in apartment 1008.
Police described the scene as very gruesome.
Guglielmi said it is unclear if the incident also occurred on July 27.
Lathem and Warren were confirmed to be at the building by security cameras, he said.
"We believe Professor Latham and the victim had a relationship," Guglielmi said.
The management team at Grand Plaza released a statement to residents saying, "Police are currently working on the timeline and background of the victim and are exploring a variety of motives, including a possible domestic incident."
"We'll complete WADA roadmap in near future" - Russian Deputy PM Mutko
Russian Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko has said it will not take long to implement the remaining World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) criteria for the reinstatement of the Russian Anti-Doping Agency (RUSADA).
"A certain stage of fulfilling the road map criteria has been carried out, RUSADA obtained the right to plan and test in cooperation with UKAD (UK Anti-Doping).
The WADA roadmap was updated in this regard," Mutko stated on Thursday.
The PM was commenting on the second part of WADA's Roadmap to Code Compliance, which describes the criteria for the reinstatement of RUSADA and which recently published on the organization's website.
According to Mutko, it does not contain anything that could cause concern for Russia.
"Everything has been announced, everything will be implemented.
And the results will be presented to the International Olympic Committee [IOC] and WADA in the near future," he added.
One of the criteria mentioned in the list, however, states that Russian anti-doping authorities must publically accept the reported outcomes of the WADA-sanctioned investigation by Canadian lawyer Richard McLaren on alleged state-sponsored doping in Russian sport.
Referring to the matter, Mutko said: "We are conducting the investigation, as our anti-doping system admitted a failure.
All measures have been implemented.
But there were no state programs, and we will not admit something that didn't exist."
Mutko's words echoed those of Vitaly Smirnov, the head of Russia's Independent Public Anti-Doping Commission.
Talking to Russian outlet RSport earlier in the day, Smirnov admitted past problems in Russian anti-doping bodies, but added: "We have said on numerous occasions, that the report contains controversial positions and regulations.
No one plans to accept this report unconditionally," Smirnov added.
RUSADA was suspended from carrying out doping controls within Russia by WADA in November 2015 in the wake of the doping scandal.
It was, however, permitted to plan and coordinate testing under the supervision of international experts and UK Anti-Doping (UKAD) this June.
Following a visit to the organization's headquarters in Moscow in July, WADA Director General Olivier Niggli stated that RUSADA is "moving in the right direction" to be reinstated.
The start-ups that will help your company avoid becoming the next Uber
Amy Errett wanted to gauge employee happiness at her e-commerce start-up, but surveys weren't working.
Responses were often vague, unhelpful or, worse, deceitful.
And even if she promised anonymity, some workers didn't trust the process.
"It just never had consistency and objectivity," said Errett, who runs the 75-person San Francisco e-commerce hair care company Madison Reed.
So she called in outsiders for help.
A new breed of human resources start-ups is cropping up to help companies figure out how their employees feel.
By building and licensing software that has the specific purpose of measuring employee engagement, they allow companies to do snap polls, target specific teams and demographic groups, offer employees anonymity and complaint hotlines, and in some cases allow whistle-blowers to bypass C-suite executives and go straight to the board of directors.
"You've now got tools such as Strava and Fitbit for tracking your health, but where's the Fitbit for your company?" said Jim Barnett, co-founder and chief executive of Redwood City start-up Glint, whose software analytics tools are used by companies to measure employee engagement.
Errett said she gained more insight into what her employees were thinking and feeling in three years using Glint.
In addition to the snap surveys and polls of specific teams, it offers a heat map of the company showing at a glance which units have the most complaints and which managers have low approval scores - allowing her to drill down on why.
Companies are coming to realize they must stay on top of their workplace culture, lest they become the next Uber, which has been enmeshed in scandal since a former employee published a blog post describing an environment of harassment where those who spoke out were punished.
For start-ups such as Glint, this desire for oversight is a lucrative business opportunity.
The global governance, regulation and compliance industry could be worth more than $118.7 billion by 2020, according to finance tech insights website Let's Talk Payments.
Denver, Colo., start-up Convercent, which helps companies prevent and detect bad behavior, saw an uptick in interest and activity earlier this year amid Uber's fall into disrepute.
Convercent has nearly 600 clients, including Airbnb, Microsoft, and Tesla.
Uber recently signed up as a client.
Like Glint, Convercent lets companies send customized "pulse" surveys, gather confidential responses in real time, and view heat maps of its problem areas.
It also offers an anonymous texting hotline that lets employees report bad behavior.
And if the chief executive is implicated, complaints go straight to the board of directors.
"The court of public opinion has usurped regulators," said Patrick Quinlan, the founder and chief executive of Convercent.
If a company is found to treat its employees poorly or behave unethically, even if regulators don't step in, it can face costly consequences from consumer boycotts, employee attrition and lawsuits, Quinlan said.
Ruby Tuesday, the restaurant chain with more than 25,000 employees across 500 locations, has used Convercent for more than a year to ensure employees are aware of policies and procedures and offer an easy way to reach its corporate headquarters.
Previously, if an employee wanted to report a problem, he or she had to find a phone number or email for corporate headquarters, lodge a formal complaint, and hope it was taken seriously.
It was often an intimidating and uncomfortable experience, said James Vitrano, Ruby Tuesday's general counsel, who said there was no good way of tracking employee complaints.
Now that the company is using Convercent, though, problems that were previously hidden from executives who sat in offices cities or states away - such as discrimination, harassment or unfair wage practices - can be more quickly identified and addressed.
"I can get closer to that holistic, 360-degree view into the employment experience," said Vitrano, who oversees Ruby Tuesday's risk management group.
"And we're protecting our shareholders from employment litigation."
Companies started taking ethics, values and employee engagement more seriously in 2002 after accounting firm Arthur Andersen collapsed because of ethical violations from the Enron scandal, Quinlan said.
But it wasn't until "social media came into its own" that companies realized they couldn't stop their dirty laundry from going viral online.
"Prior to using technology to monitor ethics, people used hope as a strategy," he said.
Both Glint and Convercent offer their software as a service, charging companies recurring fees to use their products.
It's a business model and opportunity that has the approval of venture capital investors, who have propped up both start-ups.
Convercent raised $10 million in funding in February from firms such as Sapphire Ventures and Tola Capital, bringing its total capital raised to $47 million.
Glint secured $10 million in November from Bessemer Venture Partners, bringing its total funding to $60 million.
These investments hardly come as a surprise, given the interconnected nature of companies, culture and venture capital.
There's a growing body of research showing today's employees expect more from their workplaces than before.
In competitive markets such as Silicon Valley, high salaries and interesting projects are merely table stakes.
Employees want to feel that they're accepted and valued and that they're giving their time to a company with a positive mission.
"When people are happy to be at a company, feel their voices are heard, and that the work they are doing is rewarding, they are more committed to making that company successful," said Nina McQueen, vice president of global benefits and employee experience at LinkedIn, which uses both Convercent and Glint.
Investors achieve returns when their portfolio companies do well; companies do well when employees are committed and engaged.
If third-party analytics tools promise to increase employee commitment and engagement, it's no wonder they're finding backing.
Having data on employee engagement is important, according to workplace culture experts.
But the data are useless unless a company's custodians take action.
In fact, if a company asks employees for their feedback, it can set an expectation that change is on the way.
And if change doesn't come fast enough, or at all, it can breed disappointment and make employees disengaged.
"If you're going to ask for 4,000 suggestions, you need to be prepared to have 4,000 conversations," said Russell Raath, president of consulting at business management firm Kotter International, who has seen companies make the mistake of relying too much on data collection.
"Because if you don't follow through, employees will wonder, 'Did you really hear me?
Do you care?
And if you don't care, why should I care?' "
Madison Reed, which now does monthly employee surveys, has been able to take action the same day a problem is reported on Glint, according to Errett.
And, after gathering feedback from employees frustrated by the speed of decision-making and the quality of communication, she was able to reorganize several teams within the company and add communication training to address the issues.
Over at Ruby Tuesday, the company is getting new insight on its employees, and it's hoping that in the long run, this will convert to better retention of workers in an industry known for high turnover.
"If you're not committed to creating a culture of transparency, you're going to lose people," Vitrano said.
"And if you lose people, you're going to lose customers.
And when you lose customers, you're going to lose companies."
The NCAA's elimination of two-a-day practices makes for a long day for the Bruins
It's pushing 11 p.m. as a throng of UCLA football players linger to chat on one side of the team's new on-campus practice fields.
Some have peeled off their jersey tops, revealing backs slick with sweat from the toil of the first day of training camp.
For a good chunk of the team, these idle minutes constitute a midday break.
Players enrolled in summer classes will head back to their dorms after the three-hour practice to study for final exams before returning to the Wasserman Football Center for meetings at 6:30 the following morning.
"This is a grind for these guys the next three days," Bruins coach Jim Mora said not long before Monday turned into Tuesday.
The NCAA's elimination of two-a-day practices, designed to lighten the load on players, has actually lengthened their days - at least until finals end Friday.
That's why UCLA's first three practices were scheduled to begin at 7:15 p.m. to accommodate players' already crammed schedules.
The trade-off from no two-a-days is more one-a-days, the Bruins pushing up the start of camp nearly a week from last season and holding practices during summer school for the first time during Mora's six seasons in Westwood.
They are scheduled to hold 18 practices through Aug. 20 before beginning formal game preparations for their opener against Texas A&M on Sept.
Mora said he supported the NCAA's rule change even if it did add another item to players' busy itineraries.
"We're putting this enormous load on them for three or four days and it's very challenging," Mora said.
"And they've just pushed through it; they grind, they're great kids.
I think once we get to Saturday and we'll have more time, it will really be great."
UCLA will close its practices once camp is finished, no easy task given the clear sight lines of its fields from an adjacent parking lot and the adjoining Luskin Center, an upscale hotel that has already been pelted with footballs that cleared a protective net behind a goalpost.
Bruins players are scheduled to occupy the hotel beginning this weekend, but Mora acknowledged that there could be an issue once those rooms are vacant during the season.
"We will have security," Mora said.
"That is a real concern and it's not far-fetched to think that people can rent a room and sit up there and videotape a practice.
If you have videotape of a practice, it's a pretty good deal.
But we'll have security there and we'll have security up in Parking Lot 8.
We'll do the best we can with what we got.
I'm not going to worry too much about it.
We have a plan in place."
Facebook to step up fact-checking in fight against fake news
Facebook is to send more potential hoax articles to third-party fact checkers and show their findings below the original post, the world's largest online social network said on Thursday as it tries to fight so-called fake news.
The company said in a statement on its website it will start using updated machine learning to detect possible hoaxes and send them to fact checkers, potentially showing fact-checking results under the original article.
Facebook has been criticized as being one of the main distribution points for so-called fake news, which many think influenced the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
The issue has also become a big political topic in Europe, with French voters deluged with false stories ahead of the presidential election in May and Germany backing a plan to fine social media networks if they fail to remove hateful postings promptly, ahead of elections there in September.
On Thursday Facebook said in a separate statement in German that a test of the new fact-checking feature was being launched in the United States, France, the Netherlands and Germany.
"In addition to seeing which stories are disputed by third-party fact checkers, people want more context to make informed decisions about what they read and share," said Sara Su, Facebook news feed product manager, in a blog.
She added that Facebook would keep testing its "related article" feature and work on other changes to its news feed to cut down on false news.
Building a graphic novel: A Castle in England's story
In its recent past, the diminutive Scotney Castle has featured in a Squeeze music video and been a bolthole for Margaret Thatcher during the 1970s and 1980s.
But Scotney has witnessed 700 years of tumultuous history from its cosy seat in Bewl River valley in Kent, now inspiration for a graphic novel written by Jamie Rhodes, a mop-haired Yorkshireman with a penchant for historical documents.
"I find it so beautiful to look at the handwriting of someone who has been dead for 300 years," he says wistfully.
"What a personal connection, to hold that letter in my hand."
Spanning the middle ages to the Edwardian era, A Castle in England documents the families that lived in Scotney, with each story illustrated by a different, upcoming UK artist - Isaac Lenkiewicz, Briony May Smith, William Exley, Becky Palmer and Isabel Greenberg.
It is not Rhodes's first book based on an archive: he also wrote 2014's Dead Men's Teeth and Other Stories, a collection inspired by documents in the British Library - a project he found unexpectedly emotional.
"I welled up at just the thumbprint on the side of a letter, written by a double agent in the 1700s who was working for the Jacobites," he says.
"That's his thumbprint!
And letters always smell like smoke because, back then, you lit a fire for light.
To someone 300 years in the future, the smell makes it feel like they're there, too.
Ah, I love archives!"
For someone so smitten with old papers, getting support from the National Trust and Arts Council England and living in a castle for almost four months ("I overstayed my welcome a little bit, to be honest") seems too good to be true.
Rhodes spent his days exploring the Victorian "new" castle, going through the archives and studying the manor's many treasures and curios, such as the mounted hyena heads on the walls and bottles that had spent centuries in the moat.
He wandered the grounds and the ruins of the old castle, talking to rangers, gardeners and sometimes the artists at work on his book's illustrations.
Then at night, he'd "drink whiskey and get writing."
The intimate history of Scotney is relatively unknown, as the National Trust had only gained full access in 2006 when the final heir, Elizabeth Hussey, died.
When Rhodes arrived a decade later, staff were only starting to tackle the archive, which he describes as "hundreds of years of aristocrats going: 'Oh, stick it in the loft'."
Diaries, letters from the days of the English empire, maps outlining who owned what: "You'd think land disputes would be boring," says Rhodes, "but there was this one birch tree two families were fighting over.
Just let it go, guys!"
Some of the stories in the collection use the castle as a jumping-off point to delve more broadly into English history, including The Labourer, which follows a man who leaves the newly built castle to join the 1381 Peasants' Revolt.
"There is a record of a riot happening at the castle in 1380, in this book called the Knightly Families of Kent and Sussex," says Rhodes.
"The Peasants' Revolt started in that area and I thought, a riot is a good place to start.
Maybe the two are connected?"
Other stories are rooted firmly in the history of the castle - such as The Priest, which tells the tale of the Jesuit priest whom the Darrell family hid for seven years during the English Reformation.
Or The Smuggler, which features 18th-century contrabander Arthur Darrell, who is thought to have staged his own funeral by filling a coffin with rocks (a discovery made years later when his coffin was unearthed).
The Darrells are Rhodes's favourite Scotney family: "The gentlemen seemed to be quite roguish, always getting into debt and spending money on things they couldn't afford.
Different generations of Darrell men solved their debt crises by marrying rich old women - I imagine them as a bunch of handsome guys, with a knack for wooing heiresses."
With his assignment in the castle over, Rhodes is on the hunt for other singular writing experiences.
He has completed a two-week stint in the Finnish wilderness for a graphic novel about Elämänmäki, the site of an early 20th-century sanatorium that has since been reclaimed by nature.
But Scotney holds a special place for him.
"I was sad to leave," he says.
"It was like: 'Ah, I've got to go deal with fucking real life now.'"
Washington Changes the Green Card Rules
There is going to be new US immigration plan to modify Green Card rules, President Donald Trump said, quoted by the media.
It envisages reducing legal immigrants to 50,000 per year, stricter rules for obtaining temporary work visas and restrictions on family-oriented visas.
The new rules are proposed by the Republicans and are supported by the president.
The draft law is due to be discussed in the two chambers of Congress.
"This law will reduce poverty, raise wages and save billions of dollars for taxpayers, and will do this by changing the way the US issues Green Cards to citizens from other countries.
The law will reduce chain migration and replace the current scheme.
This new application process will benefit candidates who speak English, have financial resources to support themselves and show skills that will benefit our economy," said Trump, quoted by the American media.
The rise of sex robots is real, and we should be concerned
Just when you thought 2017 couldn't get any weirder along comes a new report on the technological developments in the sex robot sector.
Yep.
Sex robots are a big deal right now.
Recently, the Foundation for Responsible Robotics (FRR) released a report looking at the development of sex robots over the next five to 10 years.
According to Noel Sharkey, emeritus professor of robotics and artificial intelligence at the University of Sheffield and co-founder of the FRR, we need to start taking their rise seriously.
Customers can choose the robot's eye colour, nipple shape and fingernail type.
"People snigger about them, but the companies are actually shipping quite a lot and we are going to see them a lot more," Mr Sharkey said at the launch of the new report.
Modern sex dolls have evolved out of their blow-up counterparts into robots with a silicon skin that is warm to the touch - with deliberately human-like responses achieved by artificial intelligence.
The user can also "customise" their robot to suit their persuasions, choosing everything from the robot's eye colour, nipple shape to fingernail type or colour.
But it gets even more disturbing, with many of the robots possessing "personalities" that would make a Stepford Wife look progressive.
Modern sex dolls have evolved into robots with a silicon skin.
The RealBotix robot, for example, allows users to customise their robots according to the traits they find appealing, such as shyness.
Then there are the Roxxxy Gold sex robots, developed by True Companion, which come with pre-programmed personalities, including "Frigid Farrah" that gives the impression of shyness and "Wild Wendy" with an "adventurous" personality.
"Roxxxy Gold has a personality which is matched as much as possible to your personality," the True Companion website enthuses.
So she likes what you like, dislikes what you dislike, etc.
She also has moods during the day just like real people!
She can be sleepy, conversational or she can 'be in the mood'!"
There are many disturbing aspects to the rise of sex robots - not least of which is the replacement of real, human relationships - but the subservient female traits, the rapey connotations of making a move on Frigid (read: resistant) Farrah, are the most concerning.
On its website, True Companion likened Roxxxy to a vibrator, but for men.
"If woman (sic) can have a vibrator, why can't men have a Roxxxy?" the website states.
However, these sex robots are not a mere fetish or just another sex toy.
Their emergence and increasing sophistication points to something darker and deeper within our culture, a retreat from the ideal of gender equality toward a desire for sex with subjugation as an optional add-on.
Most men, naturally, are not going to keep sex robots, and while the FRR noted their increasing popularity, they remain, for now, on the outskirts of consumer culture.
But what seeps in from the fringes can be highly instructive as to the tenor of the era we're living in.
And many people aren't weird or offensive until the free market gives them the permission to be so.
There is little coincidence that these sophisticated sex robots have emerged at a time when women's rights are under threat across the globe, when there is a president in the White House who has bragged about sexually assaulting women.
The most chilling aspect of the TV series The Handmaid's Tale isn't the graphic imagery, the noosed bodies and gouged eyes, but just how realistic that vision feels.
The Republic of Gilead is a leap, but, right now, it doesn't feel like a large one.
The aim behind these sex robots is to create as much of a physical likeness to actual women (albeit with porn star proportions) as technologically possible.
Their creators want them to feel human to the touch, for them to mimic the movement of a real body.
But, pointedly, when it comes to their "personalities" the robots do not represent real women.
They cannot break up with their companion, or walk out.
They have no agency or back-story, nothing to suggest independence or anything that may disrupt the fantasy of total servitude.
They are pleasant slaves, in other words.
Or to put it into 2017 parlance: handmaidens.
Trump's great feat?
Making Mitt Romney seem the epitome of common sense
It has become a truism of the Trump era that the political divisions that have polarised the US electorate have, on a micro-scale, torn families apart.
Around Christmas and Thanksgiving, newspapers in the US abounded with advice columns on how to deal with the horror of Trump-voting relatives.
We are all supposedly straining to burst our filter bubbles.
Less remarked on is the power of Trump to bring families together.
I mention this because my cousin, a left-leaning poet who lives in Chicago and who's long been at loggerheads with Republicans in our family, has been visiting me in New York this week.
She reminded me that unity against a common enemy can have a powerful effect.
With Trump in the White House, everyone she knows, including the Republican sibling she had been bickering with about politics for decades, is suddenly and peculiarly on the same side.
Around the dinner table this is surely a good thing; but it strikes me that, in a broader context, it carries significant risks.
The left has been invigorated by Trump, but the warping effect of his presidency has the power to push us all rightwards.
When we talk about "normalisation" and Trump, we are referring to the scary possibility that his antics may one day cease to appal.
There is an even scarier long-range scenario, however, in which what Trump "normalises" are rightwing Republicans who, held up against his standards, suddenly seem the epitome of reasonable.
I find myself actively nostalgic these days for Mitt Romney's quaint version of crazy - the dog on the car roof, the 14% income tax (but at least we knew what his tax return looked like) - both of which, compared to Trump, seem very mild offences indeed.
When Trump goes, the next Republican candidate will merely have to be sane to qualify as an immeasurable improvement.
While my cousin was in town, we took our kids to the carousel in Central Park, the biggest of the carousels run by the New York parks department, and the best three bucks you can spend in the city if you don't require caffeine.
The horses are thunderously huge, the fibre-glass designs on the central cylinder - all gurning clowns and animals twisting to look over their own shoulders in terror - utterly sinister, and the tinkling music oddly transporting.
So many of the cliches of a city disappoint: views from tall buildings get old, skylines grow too familiar to offer much of a thrill, and the reality of the city doesn't live up to the dream.
Thirty-five years later and I'm still not entirely over the day I discovered Swiss Cottage is not, in fact, a Swiss cottage - the theme pub, Ye Olde Swiss Cottage, doesn't count - but a large roundabout in north London.
The Central Park carousel, however, is still a weirdly magical experience, to the extent that two two-year-olds, an 11-year-old and two women in their 40s can go on it and all have a great time.
If I could have rated the carousel I would have given it full marks, but thankfully nobody asked.
In a department store this week, on the other hand, I was required, before swiping my credit card, to rate my transactional "experience" on a scale of one to five stars.
In the coffee shop at the corner of my street it's the same thing, plus the option to match the rating with a 15% tip - this for buying something over the counter.
The effect of this is not only to slow down what should be a neutral exchange, but to put pressure on the server to inject personality into a situation where none is required.
The poor woman in the department store stood grinning apologetically while, wearily, I gave the experience of handing her my credit card five stars.
Oscar Pistorius taken from jail to hospital with chest pains
This is the second time Pistorius has left jail for a hospital visit.
Last year he was taken to the hospital for treatment to cuts on his wrists, which prison authorities said he sustained after falling in his cell.
Pistorius was convicted of murder after an appeal by prosecutors against an initial manslaughter verdict.
He killed Steenkamp in the early hours of Valentine's Day 2013 by shooting her multiple times through a toilet cubicle door at his Pretoria home.
Pistorius claimed he mistook his girlfriend for a nighttime intruder hiding in the cubicle.
Prosecutors have announced their intention to appeal again, this time against Pistorius' six-year sentence, which they say is too lenient.
The National Prosecuting Authority said it will appeal to South Africa's Supreme Court, and the appeal could be heard this year.
Pistorius faces having his sentence increased to 15 years if prosecutors are successful.
There is no death penalty in South Africa.
Two Bulgarians Were Detained For Illegal Camping in Greece
Two Bulgarians were detained for illegal camping in Greece, the Foreign Affairs Ministry announced, quoted by bTV.
A group of illegally camping people, including the two Bulgarians, was detained by the police in Sithonia in the morning of August 1.
The same day they were released, while an investigation is currently underway.
The ministry of foreign affairs reported bTV that Bulgarians were later released.
The Greek authorities have tightened control over free camping and are already imposing serious fines on anyone who is caught resting in a place not intended for the purpose.
Checks will continue throughout the season.
The ministry said that the court may impose a fine.
Red meat, dairy, and chocolate could help relieve IBD
Red meat and chocolate may sound like a nightmare for your digestive system.
But a new study claims quite the opposite: a diet rich in meat-based protein and dairy treats could help relieve symptoms of sufferers of inflammatory bowel disease.
The incurable condition, which affects around 1.3 million in the US and 300,000 in the UK, causes stomach cramps and bloating, recurring or bloody diarrhea, weight loss and extreme tiredness.
While sufferers are usually advised to dodge meat and dairy to soothe their symptoms, researchers at Washington University found protein's essential amino acid tryptophan helps develop immune cells that foster a tolerant gut.
Lead investigator Dr Marco Colonna explained immune cells patrol the gut to ensure that harmful microbes hidden in the food don't sneak into the body.
Cells that are capable of triggering inflammation are balanced by cells that promote tolerance, protecting the body without damaging sensitive tissues.
When the balance tilts too far toward inflammation, inflammatory bowel disease can result.
In experiments it was found a kind of tolerance-promoting immune cell appears in mice that carry a specific bacterium in their guts.
And the bacterium needs tryptophan - one of the building blocks of proteins - to trigger the cells' appearance.
Professor Colonna said: 'We established a link between one bacterial species - Lactobacillus reuteri - that is a normal part of the gut microbiome, and the development of a population of cells that promote tolerance.
The more tryptophan the mice had in their diet, the more of these immune cells they had.'
He suggested if the same works in humans, a combination of L. reuteri and a tryptophan-rich diet may foster a more tolerant, less inflammatory gut environment.
Postdoctoral researcher Dr Luisa Cervantes-Barraganwas studying a kind of immune cell that promotes tolerance when she discovered that one group of study mice had such cells but another group of the same strain but housed separately did not.
She suspected the difference had to do with the mice's gut microbiomes - the community of bacteria, viruses and fungi that normally live within the gastrointestinal tract.
The guts of the mice were DNA sequenced and it was found six bacterial species present in the mice with the immune cells but absent from the mice without them.
Mice reared in a sterile environment so they lacked a gut microbiome and do not develop this kind of immune cell were given L. reuteri and the immune cells arose.
To understand how the bacteria affected the immune system, the researchers grew L. reuteri in liquid and then transferred small amounts of the liquid - without bacteria - to immature immune cells isolated from mice.
The immune cells developed into the tolerance-promoting cells.
When the active component was purified from the liquid, it turned out to be a byproduct of tryptophan metabolism known as indole-3-lactic acid.
When the researchers doubled the amount of tryptophan in the mice's feed, the number of such cells rose by about 50 percent but when tryptophan levels were halved, the number of cells dropped by half.
Dr Cervantes-Barragan explained people have the same tolerance-promoting cells as mice, and most of us shelter L. reuteri in our gastrointestinal tracts.
It is not known whether tryptophan byproducts from L. reuteri induce the cells to develop in people as they do in mice, but defects in genes related to tryptophan have been found in people with inflammatory bowel disease.
She said: 'The development of these cells is probably something we want to encourage since these cells control inflammation on the inner surface of the intestines.
Potentially, high levels of tryptophan in the presence of L. reuteri may induce expansion of this population.'
Jose Mourinho thinks Manchester United have signed a 'genius' in Nemanja Matic
Manchester United have signed a "genius" in Nemanja Matic, believes Jose Mourinho, after the midfielder made his debut against Sampdoria on Wednesday evening.
The £40m signing from Chelsea started the 2-1 win in Dublin, United's final preseason game before the Uefa Super Cup against Real Madrid on Tuesday, and impressed in the holding role as the likes of Paul Pogba and Andreas Pereira marauded forward at will.
However, having been left out of the Blues' preseason tour of Asia, Matic was severely lacking match fitness and only managed 45 minutes, something Mourinho admitted needed to be improved before the start of the Premier League season.
"He needs time but his experience, intelligence, a genius in the way he thinks - he thinks football," Mourinho said.
"We will help him to be ready sooner rather than later."
As well as Matic, fellow new signings Victor Lindelof and Romelu Lukaku also started the game at the Aviva Stadium as Mourinho started to shape his starting XI for the start of the season.
The Independent revealed this week that Mourinho still wanted another three signings but he insisted that the club had already done a "fantastic job" of delivering three of his four priority signings.
"To get three out of four I thank the club for that," he added.
"I will be happier if they get me four of four but they did a great effort for me."
British inventor microchips himself to get into house and car with a wave of hand
A British inventor has become the first in the country to be fitted with a microchip so he can open his front door, access his office and even start his car with just a wave of his hand.
Steven Northam, 33, had the tiny chip implanted between his thumb and finger and is now offering the service to businesses and individuals who want to simplify their life with technology through his company BioTeq.
He has teamed up with Dr Geoff Watson, a consultant anesthetist at the Royal Hampshire County Hospital in Winchester, Hants, to ensure the implant procedure is carried out to a medical standard.
The technology is similar to a microchip implanted for cats and dogs, and takes just 30 seconds.
Mr Northam's company will also alter locks on houses and cars so they are compatible with the chip, for a cost of £300 each lock.
The married father of one now has technology fitted to both his home and his BMW Z4, which starts when his hand is on the wheel.
White House Prop Cost Taxpayers Thousands
The White House's decision to fly a Marine helicopter to the South Lawn for an event highlighting American manufacturing last month cost taxpayers as much as $24,000, according to military records released to TIME.
The green-and-white Sikorsky VH-3D, known as Marine One when the President is aboard, was the centerpiece of the July 17 event at the White House showcasing American construction programs.
President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and senior White House officials toured manufacturing products from all 50 states.
The Connecticut-made helicopter was displayed alongside a yacht from Maine, a fire truck from Wisconsin, and a forklift from Mississippi.
The White House Military Office requested the helicopter's presence in a fragmentary order, or FRAGO, barely 36 hours before the helicopter landed on the South Lawn for the "unusual" event, according to the records of Marine Helicopter Squadron One (HMX-1), the unit responsible for operating the helicopter.
"I just wanted you to make sure you were aware because it's such an unusual high visibility event," the commander of HMX-1 emailed his superior, the Marine Deputy Commandant for Aviation, the day before the event.
The message indicated the helicopter would arrive on the South Lawn at approximately 7 a.m. on July 17 for the 3 p.m. event, and remain until the lawn was cleared between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. that evening.
The note adds that should the departure from the White House be delayed, a second aircrew would be needed for the return flight due to duty-hour restrictions.
The original flight crew was with the helicopter during the event, while unit security personnel remained with the aircraft while it was the ground.
It was not clear from records provided to TIME whether a second flight crew was ultimately required.
The Hatch Act prohibits federal employees from using government property for political purposes.
Records indicate that HMX-1 inquired about whether the event might violate the provision.
"One question we asked was if it was a violation of the Hatch Act and were informed it was not," the commander wrote.
"Sounds like you are locked," the Deputy Commandant replied.
The "Made in America" event was designated an official event by the White House, and would not have been covered by the Hatch Act.
But even official events have political overtones.
At the event, the President made a push for healthcare reform efforts then underway in the Senate and touted efforts to rein in government regulations.
Using the aircraft known as Marine One or Air Force One for politically advantageous purposes is hardly a new phenomenon.
Presidents are required to use them for travel.
But requisitioning their use solely for a photo-op is unusual.
Trump drew scrutiny in February when the presidential airplane taxied to the backdrop of his first campaign rally in Melbourne, Fla., and his Twitter account is flush with messages complaining about his predecessor's use of the presidential aircraft.
"The White House is thrilled with the 'Made In America' showcase that featured products from all 50 states that are made by American workers with American materials," said White House deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters.
HMX-1 crews frequently perform training flights around the Washington area and at the South Lawn to practice depositing the President of the United States at the White House with inches of precision.
When Trump was at the G-20 summit in Germany in early July, HMX-1 conducted 58 practice landings at the White House.
The flight for the Made in America event counted toward the aircrew's training requirement for the month, an official said.
Unit helicopters also flew an additional 11 hours that day for "non-presidential support missions."
The White House said taxpayers did not pick up the burden for any of the other props featured at the event.
A spokesperson for Sikorsky said the company was not involved in arranging for the helicopter to be displayed on the South Lawn.
HMX-1 doesn't maintain budgetary records for presidential flights, and determining the precise cost incurred by the event is difficult.
But according to Department of Defense hourly rates for fiscal year 2017, the DoD reimbursement rate for the VH-3D is $24,380 per flight hour.
Unit records record the aircraft flight time as 30 minutes each way from its home base at Marine Corps Air Facility Quantico in Virginia.
The White House argues the true cost of operating the helicopter is well below that rate.
"To place a cost to taxpayers based on the reimbursement rate estimates is highly misleading," Walters said.
"These rate estimates include personnel, maintenance and many other sunk costs that are included in annual appropriations."
According to a 2015 RAND study, DoD reimbursement rates do not include the cost of personnel, but do account for fuel, maintenance, and contracting costs.
At the time, former White House press secretary Sean Spicer defended the use of the helicopter for the event.
"The idea is to showcase this week things that are made in America," Spicer said.
"And I know Sikorsky and the state of Connecticut are very proud of the fact that they contribute to our national security, that there are, I assume, hundreds if not thousands of people whose job depends on that.
And I think, like most Americans, we're all proud of the helicopter and other military equipment that so many Americans worked tirelessly to do.
So, of course, it's appropriate to highlight that."
It wasn't clear whether Trump interacted with the helicopter as he toured the South Lawn for the event, but he did step into the driver's seat of a fire truck.
Inside the White House, Trump addressed Sikorsky representatives, joking with the media about his own fleet of company products.
"I know Sikorsky very well," the President said, "I have three of them."
Narcos season 3 trailer: With Pablo Escobar gone, the Cali Cartel take centre stage in Netflix's hit series
Despite season two of Narcos revealing Pablo Escobar's killer, Netflix's series is far from over.
Season three and four have already been confirmed by the streaming service, the former receiving its first trailer, teasing the show's upcoming villains.
With season three, the DEA has turned their attention towards the richest drug trafficking organisation in the world: the Cali Cartel.
Led by four powerful godfathers, they operate "like a Fortune 500 company" just with more government bribes and violent actions.
Gilberto Rodriguez Orejuela (Damian Alcazar) is the cartel's leader, Miguel Rodriguez Orejuela (Francisco Denis) being the brains, Pacho Herrera (Alberto Ammann) running the Mexican connection, and Chepe Santacruz Londono (Pepe Rapazote) based in New York.
The newly released trailer sees Pedro Pascal return as Javier Peña, the character enlisting American and Colombian law enforcement to help with the war on drugs.
Other new actors include Matias Varela, Michael Stahl-David, Matt Whelan, Miguel Angel Silvestre, Kerry Bishe, and Arturo Castro.
Season three of Narcos will debut 1 September.
Afghan democracy depends on political role for women, U.N. says
Elections can only be representative if all members of society, including women, play a role, the head of the U.N. mission in Afghanistan said Wednesday.
Nicholas Haysom, acting head of the U.N. Assistance Mission said hundreds of women are running in provincial council elections, three women are running for vice president and more than 30 percent of the newly-registered voters are women.
"The role of women cannot be overstated," he said in a statement Wednesday.
Elections can only be truly representative and credible when women fully participate and are included in all parts of the electoral process.
Afghan provincial council and presidential elections take place April 5.
The Taliban has issued threats against an election process that coincides with the transition of international combat operations to an advisory role.
This year's elections mark the first time power is handed peacefully from one democratically elected government to the next.
Haysom said a strong role for women will add to Afghanistan's democratic success.
The Afghan Independent Election Commission reports 1.2 million women are registered out of 3.6 million total registered voters.
GMB concern over investment at McVitie's Glasgow factory
A union is seeking reassurance from managers at biscuit maker McVitie's over its long-term commitment to production at its factory in Glasgow.
GMB Scotland said the company had been silent over the future of investment at the Tollcross site.
More than 500 people work at the plant, which produces Hobnobs and Rich Tea biscuits, among other products.
McVitie's owner Pladis said it had invested more than £5m at the site in the last few years.
It added employees and union representatives "will be the first to know" if there were any changes to its operations.
In a letter to the company's site manager, GMB Scotland called on McVitie's to "address concerns that funding is not being brought forward for the modernisation of production lines."
GMB senior organiser Drew Duffy, said: "The fact that we cannot get clarity from the general site manager over the business needs and investment plan for the future of Tollcross is deeply concerning our members.
Generations of families have worked here and the workforce is highly concentrated in the local community and the greater Glasgow area, a crucial pillar of decent employment in an area of high unemployment and social deprivation.
So, from the perspective of jobs, pay and prosperity, and against the backdrop of Brexit, rising cost of living and chronic manufacturing decline, the east end of Glasgow desperately needs a thriving manufacturing presence at McVitie's."
A spokeswoman for Pladis said: "The site manager at Tollcross received a letter from GMB Scotland only yesterday and the company will be responding directly as we value ongoing engagement with employees and union representatives.
We had a regular meeting with employees and GMB representatives at Tollcross two months ago at which a number of issues were discussed openly.
We discussed with employees then that like all companies operating in an extremely competitive and uncertain economic climate, we review our operations on an ongoing basis - and that applies across our all our businesses and sites - in order to remain competitive.
She added: "In recent years, we have invested over £5m in our Tollcross site, notably on production lines and operational improvements.
We fully recognise the heritage of Tollcross as a manufacturing site and should there be any changes to our operations at the site, employees and their union representatives will be the first to know."
Did PSG warn Barcelona about move for Neymar three years ago?
La Liga side may rue their interest in Marco Verratti
Paris Saint-Germain will not let up in their pursuit of Neymar after lodging a £189m offer to trigger his release clause, but did they warn Barcelona of the world-record raid three years ago?
The sensational approach has lit up the summer transfer window, with the Ligue 1 club ready to break the world transfer record by more than double the previous mark, which saw Paul Pogba return to Manchester United last season for £89m.
Once completed, the move will see Neymar become the world's most expensive player and also the highest-paid professional sportsman in the world, with PSG offering wages of over £500,000-a-week after tax.
Barcelona are known to be furious with the manner of the approach and the way that Neymar has forced his way out, despite a source close to the Catalans' board insisting that the club have always done their best to look after him since his arrival from Santos in 2013.
But was the football world warned of this prospect three years ago by the PSG president?
When Manchester City expressed an interest in signing Blaise Matuidi in 2014, Nasser Al-Khelaifi had a stern warning for any club looking to sign one of PSG's best players.
"I am not worried because they know that if they touch one of our players, then we will be in opposition to them, we'll contact their players," Al-Khelaifi said.
"We respect all clubs.
But if they try to sign one of our players, they'll face consequences."
Barcelona appear to have crossed this line, with the Spanish club expressing an interesting in PSG midfielder Marco Verratti earlier this summer.
PSG made it clear that they would not allow the Italy international to leave under any circumstances, and Barcelona could well be feeling the repercussions of that interest by losing one of their prize assets in Neymar.
